WEEK 2 WEDNESDAY LECTURE 5

We're in the middle of Health Week, so we did People Health on Monday. We're going to do Planet Health today, and we'll do Political Health on Friday. And again, the reason we have this set up in the second week of class is to help you de-constrain yourself with respect to possibilities for your projects and what bioengineers might do. So we're going to do planet health today and the other thing we're going to do today is a skill very specific skill called the futures wheel. So that'll come after we do a tour of planet health reflecting on the readings. So what I'll do is I'll share and get right into it for today.

Can you see this okay? Montana, can you see this slide?

Thank you so much, yeah, great. All right, so here's a nice plot. On Monday we're talking about people and people health, and this is a plot showing the number of people on the earth. Going back to 1700, you see there are a billion people in 1804, two billion people in 1920 and so on. And we're clipping towards eight billion people. 2024 is the estimate, and maybe nine billion around 2050. All right. And if you want to contextualize this, the engineering school at Stanford starts in 1925. So the engineering school is 95 years old. There's like one and a half, one and three quarters billion people. If you think about the California state flag with the bear, a wild grizzly bear was last seen in California in nature in 1924, 96 years ago. If you want to think about why Redwood City is called Redwood City, it was the place you would ship Redwood lumber for building structures. So that's not that long ago. If we think about the living things on Earth, on the planet besides the humans, so to speak, how are they doing? And a number of them are not doing so well. So this is a recent article, the last individual of a species of snail, which had been given the name George, died, so no more of that species. And if you zoom out and try and make sense of what's going on, there's a representation that there's very significant biodiversity loss that's playing out all over the Earth across every type of life form except for the human. So for example, drawing from this paper, since 1900, 69 mammal species extinct. 400 other types of vertebrate species extinct. Evidence for other types of animals going extinct is harder to come by, because they're not as big, they're not as charismatic, but no reason to think they're doing better. Why is this happening? but no reason to think they're doing better. Why is this happening? Change in habitat due to changes in how the land is being used by people. Species coming into new locations, so an invasive species disrupting a native ecosystem. Byproducts of industrialization, carbon dioxide. Changing ecosystems as well, changes in the pH, the acidity of the ocean and Then just pollution that we touched upon previously. Those are the four major reasons. They're citing Let me just give you examples of this as reminders and on ramps This is an oil palm plantation you change the jungle or forest to a monocrop culture Organisms that depend on living in the forest as their habitat aren't going to live as well with the same diversity in a monoculture. This is a snake that is invasive to the island of Guam. It lives up in the tree canopy of the jungles in Guam, in one example, and this snake will eat the native species, things like birds and reptiles. It's thought to have arrived in Guam through airplanes and cargo ships in the in the 20th century if I remember correctly. Ocean acidification, blights basically bleaching, hitting the corals. It's a change in environment and so species that are optimized for one environment or adapted for one environment may not fare well. Presumably, if you wait long enough, a new species will show up to reclaim the niche. But if the environment changes faster than biology can evolve, that'll be problematic. So this is an abstracted representation of what's going on with the non-human biodiversity on the planet. It's a Living Planet Index. You hopefully saw it in the pre-class reading for today as one of the follow-on additional readings. And basically, if you normalize to 1970 and say, whatever the biodiversity was on Earth in 1970, and run it forward, what's been going on? And it looks like it's dropping. It looks like it's dropping by this index by a factor of two. And of course, you can make your own index. And so, however you want to calibrate things and normalize things, I presume you can get different scales here. But roughly, why I chose this one to share today is it nicely illustrates that as the human population, if you go back to that human population graph, human population has doubled over a period of 50 years. The non-human biology on earth, its diversity has dropped by a factor of two. And I don't wanna leap into causation, but at least there's a correlation here. And if you go back to the paper I was just surfacing, that suggests there are reasons to think it's not merely correlation, but it's causal as well.

Just checking the chat. In the time of COVID and just other things besides COVID, it's not getting better. It would seem to be getting worse. And by it here, it's the biology on the planet besides the human stuff. So this is a recent article in The New York Times from a week ago where, because tourists are no longer going to visit wild species on preserves, including rhinoceroses, and there's a loss of income, poachers are filling back in and harvesting or killing or poaching the wild animals. So even COVID-19 is hurting the non-human biology indirectly. So let me try and stop here. And I want to pose a poll if I can do that. So the question is, should bio Should bioengineers care about any of this? Should bioengineers care about natural biodiversity? And your options are yes, no, and other, and this is an anonymous poll. So let's see what we got. 65, 66, 92%.

So it looks like 94%, yeah, should care about what's going on, natural biodiversity. The extra human biodiversity, 2% no, and 5% other. So great. Does anybody who said other want to chime into the chat and offer what you would have preferred as a response option? There's a great question in there from Yash regarding whether pollution decrease during shelter in place may have resulted in increase of biodiversity. In San Francisco, there's a lot of news stories about the coyotes coming back into the city and reoccupying the urban niche, so to speak. Okay, well, if you have a strong feeling about other,

It's the protein database. So we'll come back to this in class when we get into molecular engineering. But I'm drawing from this website today a cartoon depiction of a protein called antifreeze protein. So this is a protein that scientists have studied and bioengineers and others have repurposed. And one use of this protein is, turns out to be ice cream. So you can make ice cream with reduced fat, but normally when you do that, the ice crystals during a freeze-thaw cycle grow and make the ice cream crunchy. You know, so if you have like an old container of ice cream in your freezer, it'll get these ice crystals in it. But you can accommodate that in part by having a lot of fat content in your ice cream, but of course that causes problems with cardiac health and so on. So could you have a no fat ice cream that was really creamy as if it had lots of fat by dealing with ice crystal structure and size? And so it turns out that this protein that modulates the capacity for water to form certain types of ice structures, ice structuring protein has been used as a food ingredient to change the freezing properties or the free-thaw properties of ice cream. And where does this come from? It comes from natural living systems, in this case a pelt, who are adapted to survive, have high fitness in environments where the temperatures are slightly below freezing. So could you have an organism that exists in water where the water's below freezing? The answer is yes, but you have to figure out how to keep that organism from freezing. And in this case, you have an ice structuring protein that helps with that. So one reason, a lot of people, it's not the only reason, but a lot of people might care about natural biodiversity as it's a source of gizmos, it's a source of function, it's a source of utility for bioengineers, right? Like better ice cream because we've got fish adapted for cold water climates. There are many other reasons to care if you were in the yes column. Some would argue there's an intrinsic innate value to nature and to species. I'm surfacing here a very general purpose question. How does one decide if something is good or bad, if a decision itself is right or wrong? And one way of thinking about that personally is to understand your moral compass, how you answer these questions and by what framework or set of tools do you develop answers to these questions for me personally? I'm not sure I had a great answer to the question. What is my moral compass? Until I was 30 years old, no reason to wait that long. It's just I hadn't really thought about it. So I'm surfacing this. And as you begin to think about what you wish to make true for your final projects between now and 2030 and by engineering along with that, I hope and will ask you to think about, is it a good or bad thing to be doing? And we'll come back to this. So regarding planet health, are there any bioengineering opportunities? And what I've got on this slide is what are we seeing as the causes of decrease in biodiversity is just one topic, land use, invasive species, climate change, pollution. And if we take the results of the very tiny framestorm from people health last time, what could we choose to do about it? We could ignore these changes and consequences, we could react to these changes and consequences, we could try and prevent these changes or consequences, or we could do something else. Now, remember framestorming from last time, the question you ask will frame the answers you get. Is there anything missing that's right at the heart of this that somebody could think of? Just chime in, come off mic and chime in. That left column of four problems or, you know, land use causes, invasive species, climate change solution, if you were to framestorm on the topic of climate health and you think about the readings for today, is there anything that is missing. Could we change the question about loss of biodiversity in a way that would allow us to do something new, so to speak? Jack, Jack Campbell, good to see you. What do you think about this?

I mean, like, are you referring to, like, reacting and preventing, like, the three or four things that were listed in that slide? Or... So is there anything else besides that? So could we change the question somehow? Instead of trying to roll back changes in land use or remove invasive species or address climate change or remediate pollution, is there something else we could do besides reacting or preventing the things we already know about? Is there a completely new wildcard opportunity that might show up for addressing planet health or biodiversity collapse? Did you ever... sorry, go ahead. Oh, no, nothing. Did you ever see... you must have seen Jurassic Park, Jurassic World, something like that? Yeah. What's going on in those movies? Like what's the core of the plot?

Like they brought back dinosaurs.

Yeah, yeah. So if something that people care about around planet health is things going extinct, everything that's being surfaced so far is just retard or hinder the extinction process. Right? Right. It's like, try and keep things from going extinct. But what if we change the question like, OK, things go extinct all the time. That was happening before people. That was happening before civilization, industrialization. What if we just change the question? Like, what if we got good at it? Things go extinct. We'll just bring them back.

I mean, obviously that like relates to the reading about the woolly mammoth project thing.

Exactly, exactly. Okay, so I just wanted to tie it back to the Framestorming tool, right? The question you're asking will frame the answers you're getting, right? So if the question is, how do we keep things from going extinct, we'll get a whole bunch of answers like what's shown on this slide. But if we allow ourself to frame some new questions, we might get a new suite of answers, right? So there's something to ponder and we'll work with you on this, on the projects. So let me just jump back into this deck. So thank you, that was perfect. And you actually see you've got that there. So this is all I was trying to get to, right? If extinction is something that we actually care about but it's not listed here, what if we just address that directly? Another thing I want to emphasize is there are so many opportunities for bioengineers to. Dig in and address what's going on in terms of planet health, if you choose to care about it, and one of the things we typically experience in this class is people, humans, we are really good at caring about people and it's much harder for us to care about other things and there are valid reasons for that. But usually when students pick up their projects, it's like two thirds of them are human health focused or people health focused. And so we're trying, at least I'm trying this year to not prescribe the balance, but give you enough of a bolus of substrate to think about what's going on beyond humans that you might find bioengineering opportunities. It's much less explored than health and medicine for people. So, picking up on Jack's comment and the reading, I want to just walk through an example of how this might play out. The point isn't to land every detail on how this works, but I just want to show you a workflow so you have a sense of plausibility and a sense of expectation for what people are attempting today. So this is a representation of the passenger pigeon, which was massive in number in population in North America, just a few human generations ago, circa 1900. And of course, the passenger pigeon is now extinct. There are no more living passenger pigeons on Earth. So let's bioengineer back an extinct species. Let's bring back the passenger pigeon. Could you imagine doing this? Well, there's a project to do this, operated by a charity based out of San Francisco called Revive and Restore. And I'm just gonna run you through the approach, again, not to parse every detail, but to give you a sense of plausibility. So step one, find a related bird that's still alive and read out its genome, so that you understand the genetic instructions for the near relative that's living. Number two, go to museums or other collections where they have dead birds or tissues, access the DNA, which hopefully is still intact, and read that out. So now you have the genome, the DNA sequence of the living relative and the extinct bird. Step three, use a computer and compare. Look for the differences between the two genomes. If you understand what those differences are, then you can make patches that will change. Step four, the genome of the living bird to have the differences of the extinct species. So you're patching genetically the living bird to have a genome that's more like the extinct species. Next, having done that, editing and so on, you'd have to inject that material, that genetic material, into a living animal that's a brood species that will basically incorporate it into the reproductive germline and off we go. So we're gonna now give birth to these creatures. After that, you raise them and help them grow up and develop flocks and so on. Of course, they're gonna have to have surrogate parents, which will be a different species of bird, right, and so on, and eventually it all gets figured out. And final step is you release them into the wild. All right, so I'm just taking this from the plan of attack on their website, and I'll close with a roadmap. So this is a project that's been underway for about eight years, maybe a little bit longer, and their goal is to release de-extincted or revived passenger pigeons by 2030, 2035. Just checking the chat real quick.

So I just want to acknowledge two questions that have come into the chat right here.

So from Coco, we're referring to the final project a lot and talking about potential topics for it. Can you please expand on the project purpose, prompt, or structure so you have a better framework for what we're saying now? That's a great question. So let me just catch breath and reflect on that for a little bit. So your final projects are a chance for you to articulate a wish. What do you wish to see made true in the world within or by the next 10 years? So it could be something that comes true within a year or 10 years. And it's a wish that should be advanceable entirely or in part via bioengineering. And so the final projects will engage you and colleagues in working together to decide what your wish should be, and then to figure out how to make that into a plan that can be represented, i.e. communicated to others, so that off it could go. And we mean this very literally, meaning we wish for these plans to be real and actionable, and we wish for these wishes to be your wishes based on what you're experiencing and seeing and learning in class, but also what you're bringing from your own history and perspectives. So hopefully that gives you a taste of what's coming. We will start work on these in class time earnestly in about two weeks, on the first of May. And so what we're doing this week is trying to give you a set of options around how existing opportunities might show up in bioengineering, not as prescriptions, but just to diversify your thinking and introduce you to some possibilities.

Diego asked a great question. If you bring back an extinct species and it works, but don't address root cause, that caused it to go extinct, won't it just go extinct again, maybe? Yash is asking, in the readings for species where we already have very low numbers, the white rhino, is there a way to introduce diversity to avoid bottlenecks in the genetics? That's a very detailed question, and the answer is probably yes, by synthesizing, by bioengineering the diversity, but I haven't seen that done, but at least I can give you a placeholder there. All right, I'm gonna jump back into sharing.

Giving you a screen grab of their website and just to, as a postcard, give you a sense of how many different things they're thinking about and working on. It's not just woolly mammoth and passenger pigeon. There's many, many applications of biotechnology applied to conservation, in case that might be of interest in project formulation. Okay, let's do a simpler example, and then we're going to set up the futures wheel activity. So this is something that draws upon the pre-class readings for the week. What this is showing on the slide is how one would use brewing as a way of making a medicine, the medicine artemisinin for treating malaria. And it's comparing and contrasting the two different approaches. So, one approach is cultivation of the plant that has the medicinally active compound in it, and then extracting the medicine from the plant. That's what's shown on top through agriculture. And the bottom row shows what would happen if you engineer yeast to make the same molecule by fermentation or brewing. So it's hard to get a sense of the consequences of this, like which way should you go? And what we're gonna set up in the futures wheel is give you a tool for thinking about impacts, both direct and indirect impacts and consequences. So some of the things that are coming up in the chat questions right now, the futures wheel is a great tool for working through thinking and so on. So just sharing here an email exchange I had with a friend, Jim Thomas, where Jim is trying to think about, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. If I shifted over how we're making this medicine from farming a tree, basically a shrub, and instead I was taking sugar that comes from potatoes or something like that into a yeast fermenter, what's the impact on land? Are we using more or less land? So think about how much land you'd have to plant with the trees to get the medicine extracted from the tree, versus if I'm just making a sugar beet or a potato farm, and then taking the sugar made by that industrial crop, basically, and putting that in a fermenter. And so he works through the math and concludes that in terms of land use, brewing this medicine, as opposed to farming the plant that makes the medicine, if you were brewing the medicine, you would use 35 times less land in the brewing process, meaning the amount of land needed to make sugar, whether it's sugarcane, potato, sugar beet, 35 times more land efficient compared to growing the sweet wormwood crop. Another consequence, since the land use would be so greatly reduced is you basically displace employment for thousands or tens of thousands of people who would be the agricultural workers growing the plants versus seasonal workers making a sugar crop. So if you get focused only on the science and technology of biosynthesis and advanced bioengineering used to make medicines, you might not think about any of the external consequences, the direct and indirect impacts of doing this. So that's where the Futures Wheel tool comes in. And the Futures Wheel is a tool or method for visualizing direct and indirect consequences of a particular change or development. So let me show you an example of this, okay? And then we'll set up an activity where you can practice this. So something happens that's in blue, and then you've got to just make a map of, well, what would be the direct consequences of the thing that happened? The change that occurred, the invention that got deployed, the decision that got made, and then once you think about the direct consequences around that, well, what are the indirect consequences or the consequences of the consequences and so on and so forth? All right, here's an example. Let's say you're at work and suddenly the change is you have to work one hour later. And so there's some consequences. You're gonna have less time to cook dinner. You're gonna have the dog that needs to be let out, but it won't be let out, so it'll pee on the carpet. The kids will be left at the bus stop, right? These are the direct consequences of having to be at work. And note that in filling out these red circles, what I'm doing is I'm brainstorming. Okay, so I'm just like, well, what would be the direct consequences of this change? And once I get those red circles filled in, then what are the consequences of those consequences? So, well, if the dog pees on the carpet, then my carpet's gonna be stained, or the next time I'm going to work, maybe I'll leave the dog outside because I don't wanna leave him inside in case he has to go pee. And then what would be the consequences of the consequences, right? So the third layer of consequences. Well, the dog might be barking all day outside and then what's the consequence of that? I might get a citation from the animal officer. Right, so you see what's going on here. So the futures wheel is a tool for mapping out the consequences following a change or an invention or a product or a plan, a decision, and then the consequences of the consequences, the consequences of the consequences of the consequences, and so on. Here's one more example, and this will be a nice hint at part of Friday's class. What would happen if the United States used a biological weapon? Maybe the weapon would infect people in the United States. Maybe other countries would counterattack. What would be the consequence of that? People would die. What would be the consequences of that? Death and famine. What would be the consequences of that? The world unites itself into a federation, right? It's not meant to be 100% correct, but it's just meant to be a tool to allow you to organize brainstorming of consequences in a chain of impact.

So this is called the future wheel.

And then, and then what happened, and then what happened, or and then what would happen, and so on and so forth. So for the breakout, which John, I hope you can set up, we want you to work in groups and ideally if you're nearby something like a piece of paper or whatnot, just sketch out this mapping of consequences. The disruption or the invention or the change to the world is all medicines can now be brewed at home. Bioengineers have gotten so good at engineering yeast that you can use a bread machine or a home brew beer apparatus and you can brew any medicine you want to brew. Okay, so that's the change. And when you go into your breakout, we want you to make a future wheel and talk out loud as you're making it. Use the breakout to brainstorm with each other as you're making out your future wheel. But coming back from the breakouts, we wish for each breakout group to report on two topics. If you could homebrew all medicines, what would be the most important impact on planet health? Not people health, but planet health. And second, so that's question number one. Second, what is the most, according to your breakout group, what's the most surprising indirect impact, something you didn't expect would show up? Okay, let's go.

Would buy engineers be responsible for predicting how something would, you know, see what I mean? So like who has responsibility for that? And it's just a great question.

Yeah, I don't know how to best reflect this or word this, but I think that idea more broadly is like engineers don't have to worry just about the technical details of implementation at like the Adams level, but also at the policy implementation at the global implementation and the effects there from.

I don't know how to best word that, John, is to just do a quick on-ramp into professional ethics in engineering. Code of ethics would typically have a umbrella term, a clause that says an engineer shall uphold the public welfare as paramount, which supersedes what used to only be in place, which was approximately, don't bad mouth your fellow engineer when bidding on a public works project and do what the client hires you to do. Do what you're ordered to do. So that's what it used to be in the late 1800s and then following the environmental movement and some massive engineering failures in the mid 20th century, we got the uphold public welfare as paramount.

Superseding.

I want to pick up on a question Zach Teflon posted right before we went to breakout. It reads, would bioengineers be responsible for predicting how reintroducing something could disrupt an ecosystem? Who's responsible for the impacts? Who's responsible for the impacts of a bioengineering perturbation, a bioengineering project, a bioengineering product? The direct impacts and the indirect impacts are the are the bioengineers responsible? How far out into the impact chain does responsibility go? That's a really good question. If you were a professional engineer, the ethics codes would say an engineer shall uphold the public welfare as paramount, as the most important thing. Now, what's the public welfare and who gets to decide is the next layer of question.

I wanna highlight something that's coming up in the chat. Ella brings up an interesting point that you can get, you can in a futures wheel get two things that contradict each other. For example, hope-bringing medicines may contribute to increased pollution rates as well as mitigate or reduce pollution rates. So when brainstorming you have this frequent situation where you can have two competing forces that you identify the forces but you don't know their relative importances and that's where it's important to look into where, why you're getting these ideas of, there'll be more pollution versus there'll be less pollution and then start doing a more of a quantitative analysis of which factors are more important.

So who would be doing the brewing and the indirect impacts of that coming back from a breakout and how that relates to gender equity or inequity and workforce? Would the women be responsible for brewing because it's more like cooking or would it cause more women to pursue STEM careers? All right, because you have access to 21st century biotechnology. That's amazing. I had never thought about that.

Hey, can I throw in one that my folks brought up, which I thought was interesting. If you were able to brew everything at home and there wasn't proper regulation, wouldn't you develop a lot of resistance to some of the heavily used drugs? I mean, how would we deal with that?

Seemed like a legitimate question to me.

Yeah, superbugs, disposal, the sewage treatment plant workers, right? Okay. Great. Okay, great. So hopefully that was a good experience. The goal of course was to have all of you experience using a futures wheel. It'll be a nice tool to have in your toolkit when you think about what your project might be. So just remember it in that mode primarily. It's a way of working through impacts and impacts and impacts and impacts and impacts so that you can make better decisions about what to do or what not to do. Again, I'll acknowledge the question of who's responsible for the impacts. And the easy answer is, well, we are, bioengineers are. But sometimes the impacts aren't easy to anticipate or manage. So that's what we've done today. We've done Futures Wheel in your toolkit as an introduction and hopefully you can see and begin to relate to yourself and others that Planet Health has a cornucopia of opportunities for bioengineers that are being explored already but it's a snowflake on tip of iceberg situation there too. So that's what we've got and I'll turn it back to the team for closing comments and announcements.

Jonathan, do you want to say something about the packages?

Yes, I do. So yesterday, Sivash and I packaged up 115 FedEx envelopes filled with two care kits that you all should receive in approximately one week. These contain kits for two activities that we like to run in BioE80. You will get more information on these as we do the activities, but one of which is going to be an activity where we send you an origami microscope developed here at Stanford called Foldscope, and we're gonna unleash you on the world to see if you can find some really cool microscopic oddities in the comfort of your own homes. The other is another work coming out of the Manu Prakash lab here at Stanford called Dancing Droplets where we're going to challenge you to program kinetic matter and see if you can program the motion of small actors, in this case water droplets, using simple rules and see if you can get more complicated behavior out of them. When you receive your packets in the mail, just receive them, put them in a nice, small little corner of your desk, and forget about them until we tell you to open them. Please, you don't have to do anything. There's nothing that's cold sensitive or needs proper storage. Just put it on the side of your desk and wait for further instructions. Yes.