WEEK 2 FRIDAY LECTURE 6

Before we jump into the political health, which is the main topic of today, just wanted to open for questions looking back at people health and planet health, the other two topics we handled Monday and Wednesday this week, respectively. Does anybody want to surface a question or a comment from what we covered earlier in the week or what you've been thinking or wondering about since those two classes? Just checking in and seeing how you're doing. The context, again, is we're pre-positioning frames of reference for utility, if you will, as it relates to bioengineering, so that you can think about that early in the quarter. Next week we'll be transitioning into tools and technology of bioengineering, molecular design, genetic system design, microscopes. Most of you, almost all of you should have received a FedEx with a microscope and some other materials in it. So just to talk out loud and give you some context. Okay, no problem. Great. So, let's do political health. So, this is a, oh wait, colorful liquids are. In the envelopes, the colorful liquids. Yeah, well. So, I think now might be a good time for an announcement.

So, you all received some colorful liquids in the mail. Please don't open them yet. And if you have, don't worry about them. Put them back in the envelope, leave them on your desk, wait until Monday. These are for activities later on in the year, and by opening them, you do no damage to yourself, but you do risk damaging the reagents inside, which slowly deteriorate in quality over time. So please leave them closed in their envelopes. There'll be a more in-depth announcement at the end of this lecture.

Well, so I completely agree with what John just said. However, I will compliment it or yes end it by saying, we trust you all, and so please do whatever you need to do. And if your curiosity insists upon you opening the package and doing it, go for it. Just recognize that the debugging and learning later may be out of control. So do what you need to do and that'll be great. The goal is learning, so let's go with that. Okay, so political health.

Activities associated with the governance of a country, an area, making decisions that apply to groups of members and achieving and exercising positions of governance. Organized control over humans. That's political and politics. Organized control over humans, the assertion of power over others. Health, a condition in which someone or something is thriving or doing well. So when we talk about political health in this class, what I'm making reference to and trying to invoke is the system by which humans are controlled. There's organized control of people by people over people. Is that system thriving and doing well? And at first blush, I would hope all of you are asking the question, what the heck does this have to do with bioengineering? All right. So so we're going to have to set that up. And you got a taste of it in the pre-class readings. But now we've got to pull it together and make it very explicit. So for example, we've already seen this week in people health and planet health that bioengineers will do things like cure diseases for people health. Bioengineers will save environments or fix environments for planet health. And in doing of these things, we're gonna do some underlying stuff like understand how biology works. And if it's not working right, if it's broken, we'll fix it. And maybe we'll get better at designing and building organisms, because that will be part of what we need to do to save the environments and cure the diseases and do the other things. And because the toolkit, the tooling infrastructure, the ways of seeing biology, modeling biology, making biology are being developed, we're going to have to get better at doing everything above, get better at curing diseases, get better at saving environments, get better at understanding and fixing biology, and so on. And when we represent and pursue biological engineering in this way, we're instantiating a historical tradition as it relates to what it means to be a human and political theory, believe it or not. So one point of reference from Europe centuries ago would be the work of Rousseau, who, when thinking about the human, was trying to understand what humans were like in nature, so to speak, before they might be corrupted by society and civilization. And two of Rousseau's are non-destructive and have a love of self. So a non-destructive love of oneself, number one, and number two, a pity or compassion for the suffering of others. And if one has pity and compassion for suffering of others, you might take action to mitigate or ameliorate that suffering, cure the disease, save the environment. So in this frame of reference, bioengineering is very naturally aligned with the political discourse of what it means to be a human. Now, there's other ways of thinking about people. And if you don't take Rousseau's view of what the natural human is, somebody else's view, you could come up with a different set of expectations for bioengineers. Bioengineers will inevitably or accidentally create diseases, destroy environments, misunderstand and abuse biology and ecology, design and build harmful organisms.

They'll get better at doing all these things.

That fifth thing is the only thing that's apparently the same in this way of thinking. Huh, now where does this come from? This comes from a different model, if you will, of the human, of what is a person by themselves left alone. So I'm quoting here, we're quoting here from Hobbes, when men live without a common power to keep them in awe, they're in a condition which is going to be war. If there's nobody to keep people from fighting with each other, then people are going to fight, and it will be everybody against everybody else, every human for themselves. And when you think about what this would be like, there's going to be no industry, no culture, no economy, no knowledge, no arts and letters, no society, and this incredibly famous closing statement in political theory, under such conditions, the life of man, solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short. So that's a valid way of thinking, you could argue, that informs how our society is constructed. When we talk about construction of society, one theory or model is called the social contract. And again, I'm just building a framework to set up a conversation and introduce you to the idea of bioengineering for political health. So the social contract is an idea that has to do with how the individual in a society relates to the state or the authority of the society. So a contract is an agreement between parties. In this case, the social contract is the idea of a contract between a citizen of a society and the government of that society. Social contracts typically posit that individuals have consented explicitly or tacitly to surrender some freedoms and submit to the authority, whether it be a king or queen or an elected government, in exchange for protection of remaining rights and maintenance of order. So as a citizen of the United States, I will give up certain rights. I am not allowed to shout out loud, fire in a crowded theater. Even though we have free speech, that's not allowed. And in exchange for giving up those and other freedoms, like I can't harm Sivash, I can't, you know, like punch him in the face, that's a crime, right? But by giving up certain freedoms that I would have naturally, society and the government protects me from others and the vagaries of nature to a degree. And the pictures shown down below are the covers of both Rousseau and Hobbes' reflections on this idea, exploration of the social contract. Depending on your view of what the human is as a natural beast, if you will, a noble savage or a state of war, you may have very different expectations for how this contract should be developed and what you would expect will be playing out. before the United States Senate last month by Dr. Megan Palmer, who's a bioengineer. And she's making recommendations to the United States Congress regarding what the United States Congress should be doing as it relates to leadership in biotechnology and the bioeconomy. So hopefully you're able to see Dr. Palmer present. If not, I would encourage you to go back to the video, it's only five minutes, take a look at it. I just want to quote two sentences from her recommendations. And again, I'm just trying to build out examples of how bioengineering connects to political health. And so what you have here is a citizen talking to the government, the Leviathan, the all-powerful other party in the contract. And so Dr. Palmer says, states third, the United States must have community and citizenship. Everyone, the U.S. must enable everyone to engage with this biological technology and its many uses to foster the best ideas and to make sure they are genuinely in the public interest. Everyone in the country should be should be trained to be literate in biotechnology. And the United States should be building the diverse training programs needed to grow the interdisciplinary bioeconomy workforce of the future. Wow. Now, there's a bunch of reasoning behind this, presumably, but this is a pretty pretty clear request from a bioengineer to the government regarding what the government must do. Everybody should engage with biological technologies, and everyone should be literate in biotechnology. Those are two prescriptions being made here.

Palmer's prescriptions can be linked to some of the founding ideas in the United States. So, this is an example of one way to think about it. It's a letter from Tom Jefferson to John Adams in the 1813s on the topic of the aristocracy and how you would construct a country to move beyond inheritance and heredity as it relates to aristocracy, what is thought of as a natural aristocracy at the time, what you could think of as a meritocracy, perhaps. And the question that's showing up here is literally the question that leads to Palmer's answer from the preceding slide. What capacity should all citizens have the option of accessing? And the details of Jefferson's reasoning are polluted and imperfect, really strongly so, from the details of the moment, but I want to read it as it is and then abstract from it the general purpose argument. So Jefferson writes, if you just follow the square brackets inside, here, everyone may have land to labor for himself if he chooses, or preferring the exercise of any other industry may exact for it such compensation as not only to afford a comfortable subsistence, but wherewith to provide for a cessation from labor in old age. Everyone by his property or satisfactory situation is interested in the support of law and order. Now, the flaw in this should be apparent to all. In the conditions of 1813, it was property owners and white men. So it's a very limited reality. If you abstract the reasoning, though, what Jefferson is saying is that the option of accessing land, which is the dominant means of manufacturing at the time, fertile land, is a type of defense against political oppression. Because if John is going to try and oppress me where I am, thanks, John, I'm just going to leave and go somewhere else because there's more fertile land over there. And if that's mutual, then we're less likely to oppress each other. And if we're doing okay where we are, then we'll be, in a simplistic sense, conservative, meaning we want to maintain the status quo, so we'll be interested in law and order. We'll reinforce the social contract and the stability of the society. Let me try and abstract this one degree further. Jefferson's argument, I would submit for your consideration is that optionality regarding access to the means of production is the ultimate defense against oppression by monopoly individuals or government because if so oppressed you just have the option of dealing with it by some other way of making and There from you can enable everybody to be a citizen so all citizens should have the option of accessing the means of production is the restatement of this reasoning I would say it begs the question What are the means of production that are most relevant as a citizen of the 21st century? And what would it mean to provide or what would it require to provide all citizens the option of accessing that? Now these are strange words, but let me make it simple when we talk about literacy with language reading and writing It's like everybody should have the option of a basic primary education and so on. What about reading and writing in Python? Well, computer science for all says, everybody should also have the option of learning to write computer code. What about the option of learning to read and write DNA? And Palmer comes to the conclusion, apparently, that everybody should have the option of this. Because in Jefferson's sense, living matter, biology, is one of the dominant modes of production for our time. Okay. So let's play this out. Remember, the topic we're introducing you to today is bioengineering for political health. I went online right before class and I got this snippet of DNA code. This is a natural sequence of DNA. It was identified from a frozen body in Alaska. The corpse was a person who succumbed to the influenza virus that was ravaging the world as a pandemic 102 years ago in 1918. And so this is one segment of that virus's genome. It's a free download online. You can get the sequence from a government website. And if you want to know what Stanford was like when this pandemic was happening. Here's the students on campus wearing masks. And that was an order. And I believe, I don't know the exact number of deaths, but it was at least seven students died during this on-campus outbreak, but it was a global pandemic. So, is it a good or bad thing that any of us could go online and download the DNA sequence for the genome that encodes the pandemic that killed 50 million people in 1918? Some would argue, Ray and Bill in this editorial, when the sequence was first discovered and put online for free, this is crazy. The blueprint for a weapon of mass destruction has just been made freely available. And unlike a nuclear weapon, it's just biology. So if you could figure out how to print that DNA and recover the infectious virus, off you go. This is a very Hobbesian view. Do you see what I mean? It's a view where human nature is such that humans left alone are intrinsically at war with one another. A competing editorial from the same time, Phil Sharp, a Nobel Laureate at MIT, is, well, you know, it's actually the right thing to do, to sequence this and make the sequence freely available so that everybody can learn from it, everybody can be literate with respect to this dangerous human pathogen and better prepare for the next possible influenza pandemic. This is very Rousseauian. It's a model for the human which is one interested in love of self and preservation of self and mitigation of suffering. These are two valid political traditions, if you will. What happens practically though, is these frames of reference tend to get polarized in the public sphere, in public conversation. So I put them on a half pipe to give you a sense of what it's like to be operating as a bioengineer where something is happening at this intersection of science and technology involving biology, and you instantly get these polarized extremes, one representing the Hobbesian tradition in the most simplistic way, the other representing the Rousseauian in the most simplistic way. I call this the half pipe of doom and salvation, where you go from one extreme of discourse, the Hobbesian destruction, to the we're going to save everybody. And the problem with this polarization is the reality of what bioengineers might do to create a healthy political framework or system is in between. It's not in the dramatic tricks you do off either lip of the half pipe, it's building out the reality in the middle. So if I use this specific example, which played out starting in 2005, you know, the things that bioengineers actually did are shown here. We worked with the FBI and the government and with industry to come up with screening frameworks so that people ordering DNA from companies couldn't accidentally or purposely order the DNA and coding a human pathogen. The scientists who showed how to print genomes from scratch for viruses learned how to use that to make automatic vaccine candidates. Just instant print of a vaccine candidate using a computer to design an alternate genome. Wow, if you could print a vaccine anywhere you wanted to, you could transmit the instructions over the internet and have much more accelerated response to an emerging pandemic. In the extreme fantasy, you would sequence a pathogen and transmit the instructions for how to vaccinate against it faster than a plane could move if bioengineers really got their act together. So, you wouldn't worry about global spread. You'd be spreading the cure or the prevention faster than the pathogen could spread by direct physical transmission. We'll have to fill in some of the technical details for why this is possible to imagine now when we get to the coming weeks. But I just wanna give you a sense of the reality for the bioengineers is typically in between these polarizing extremes. How about today? So, not quite today, this is from the 8th of April. We're dealing with a different pandemic caused by COVID-19. And so a poll recently published by Pew Research asked people in the United States, do you think that COVID-19 arose from nature? Or was it developed on purpose as a bioweapon, if you will, or some other agent designed on purpose, or it arose in nature but something changed in the laboratory, so there was some accident in a lab, or do you not know? So that's what these bars are on the right. Did it come about naturally? For the adults in the U.S. surveyed, 43% say, yeah, COVID-19 arose from nature in a bat or something like that, and it jumped into the human. About a quarter, 23% on average across all categories say COVID-19 was developed intentionally in a laboratory. Somebody made it on purpose. 6% said it was made in a lab, but it was not made on purpose. It was made by accident. Not bioterror so much as bioerror, if you will. And 25% say, I don't know, on average. And you can see how that split across categories. One thing I found interesting was if you have a college education or above, apparently you're more likely to think it came about naturally. Not quite sure why that is. Other thing I found interesting was the older you are, the more likely you think it came about naturally. The younger you are, the more likely you are to think it was made in a laboratory. That's that's kind of interesting to think about. But what about this question? Is COVID-19 a biological weapon? Is that an important question to be able to answer? Definitely. Why? Because it fits immediately into the framework of political health. If we knew for certain that somebody had made this thing and intentionally released it and we could attribute that with high confidence, you know how that plays out at the level of geopolitics and nation states. itself could be exploited for political purposes, that creates not the same type of risk, but a risk of pretty significant scale, right, where you could lead a group of people to take action against another group of people incorrectly. I just added this slide to our deck five minutes before class, came across a archive on GitHub that is being authored by an anonymous group of researchers who are collectively trying to explore and answer the question, what can we say about the origin of COVID-19? And there's a lot of information here, and I haven't studied more than the first page of it, so I'm not endorsing this, but I'm just giving you a sense of suddenly political health and biology and bioengineering are all over the place and deeply important.

One of the things that came up in the people health topic on Monday in the discussion was, how would we feel about editing the human itself? Could you edit the human to improve health by, for example, removing genetic traits or changing genetic traits associated with disease? It's incredibly tricky topic because of the ethics of changing future generations of humans. Now what's very interesting is in 2017 in the United States there was a advisory group to the government in the National Academies which as Amy Harmon's reporting here, I'll just read it out, this group lent its support to the once unthinkable proposition, the modification of human embryos to create genetic traits that can be passed down to future generations, okay, only for alterations designed to prevent babies from acquiring genes known to cause serious diseases and disabilities, and when there is no other alternative but to change the gene.

The report provides a rationale for this type of work, which the government in the United States has avoided, but the work is being done in Sweden and China already. So, hmm, okay. Now I wanna give you another article in the New York Times that's about 20 years earlier. It was also published in the Washington Post. If you think big government interferes in your life too much now, wait till the government starts regulating the genetic constitution of your children. Such regulation will inevitably follow the introduction of genetic engineering of humans because the consequences of unregulated genetic engineering of humans would be disastrous. Now remember, we're talking about things like the social contract and political health and what's happening here. This is a paragraph that's talking about the relationship between the government asserting power over the individual, the citizen, and also the future citizens, the children of the citizens as yet unborn. Continuing on, the usual response to such concerns is to talk about ethics, but a code of ethics wouldn't protect freedom, it would only make things worse. Somebody, jumping down to line four in paragraph 124, somebody, probably the upper middle class, would decide that such and such applications of genetic engineering were ethical and others aren't. Even if a code of ethics was chosen on a democratic basis, the majority would be imposing values on any minorities who might have a Going down to the third to last line, since to the majority of people, many of the applications of genetic engineering to the human will seem obviously unequivocally good, perens, eliminating diseases, inevitably it's going to happen. So the reasoning presented in this piece is, I would argue, exactly the same as what the government advisory group came to 20 years later. This picture here, the portrait of the gentleman, is taken on the campus of Cal, UC Berkeley, but if you wanted to see his more recent portrait, he's serving multiple life sentences in a federal penitentiary. He's known publicly as the Oona Bomber. He was a person who would send mail-order bombs to airline executives, to computer scientists, faculty at universities, and to a few geneticists as well. Again, right at the intersection of political health, government, citizen, bioengineering, and so on. So, with all of this as introduction, we're gonna set up the first breakout, and Naomi, are you operating the first breakout? Yes.

What should bioengineers do such that all infectious diseases are totally obsolete by 2030? And by all infectious diseases, I mean whether it's a natural one, whether it's an engineered one, and by obsolete, I mean, practically speaking, they may exist, but they don't matter, or they don't exist, I don't know, right? So we're gonna head into the breakout and we'd like you to come up with answers to this. Think about the skills we've been positioning this week, the framestorming, can you change the question completely? And also the futures wheel. If you did this, what would be the consequence and then what would happen and then what would happen? So I'll pause there, Naomi, and over to you, please.

So, Drew, in this framing, the opposite of a citizen is a consumer, correct? Not necessarily. I think about it as, and I'll use a hierarchy just to organize it. You could have a society constructed of citizens. You could have a society constructed of consumers. You could have a society constructed of subjects. You could have a society constructed of objects. So subject to a king, for example, object would be property, the slave. A consumer would be somebody who can access the means of production only and directly via purchasing, but not via production directly, right? Can access the products of production, but not production itself. Whereas citizens would have the option of accessing the production capacity directly.

If you look at the trajectory of the United States, we've gone from a society of citizens and subjects and objects to a society of citizens and consumers, where I would say, although we're all—well, although most are—I think we're more now than citizen. But anyway, the positioning of people within a society is not stable, right? It changes over time.

The current strategy is to frame the physical molecules of proteins in DNA and RNA as just specific instantiations of polymers and just really drill the idea that biology does additive synthesis because it makes it easier to describe what a genetic code is by saying you read this many monomers of DNA and you add this many monomers of amino acids and the mapping of those is a genetic code. Then it allows you to also just say the process of adding monomers can be regulated and that's transcription, translation.

I think that's great. I would also offer for some it may be useful to think about the puzzle of going from abstracted information to three-dimensional organization of matter, right? And so the bases of DNA are an abstraction of an information register, and that's in one dimension. mRNA is in one dimension. A peptide is in one dimension, but then the peptide folds into three. And so suddenly you go from this abstracted information that's linear to three-dimensional structure. And that's, if you haven't thought about it that way, it's amazing, right? It's where that shows up.

Like what would happen if, if like things that could happen if just infectious diseases became obsolete. And so then we started talking about like that means like, should we even, should we do it? Like what potentially could happen if you don't, if bioengineers chose not to, or if they did choose to? You guys have any specifics? Yeah, we were thinking that, let's say they did choose to, that would then, it would probably be expensive, that whatever happens. So then the problem of who gets the solution would come and then that would bring things like racism into it. It would bring discrimination into it. It would bring, you know, it would need, there would need to be like global cohesion for all the countries to like agree together and if they don't, then that means that again goes against, goes to discrimination, et cetera.

Yeah, those are good points. It looks like, so we had a family. You commented on what, like how resistance of these diseases would occur, like to our treatments. Did you want to comment or anyone else in your group want to comment more on like how resistance would be a problem or how that could be kind of tackle? Yeah, so we were talking about, so given that like viruses and bacteria can mutate, it might not ever be possible to eradicate infectious disease even if we had an infinite amount of time. So one of the solutions that we brainstormed was like could scientists possibly develop develop some sort of methodology for or simple algorithm, not simple, but an algorithm by which they get a virus, they expose this algorithm to a virus and then it produces a vaccine pretty pretty quickly or an antibiotic pretty quickly but I mean that's super super like futuristic but I think that was the only way we saw like infectious disease ever being eradicated.

helping a lot of people come up with a lot of like less technical and more like social solutions. And like, for example, this one about how we change funding and how we discuss funding to promote research for new vaccines and treatments and stuff. So not just trying to think of the technical or technology aspect of trying to make infectious diseases obsolete, but also funding and social interactions like here, not shaking hands and disinfecting, just more public health type solutions?

These are great questions. And one of them is, if this happened to develop countries, would it leave poorer countries more susceptible? I think those are really legitimate questions to ask. I think the answer is yes.

I was like, so Jordan made a comment saying like a lot of people view maybe other countries or parts of the world as kind of over there, them, and that like the us is protected, but maybe this whole kind of discussion is bringing up the idea that maybe our concept of who's they versus us might change or could be made even worse if we try to make all diseases obsolete. I don't know, Jordan, if you wanted to talk more about, like, if you guys thought that this would be kind of a, improve this type of problem or make it worse. Yeah, I think that it would, like, if we could shift to a mindset where we understand how interconnected the world and like, how, even if like in the US looks at it from a completely objective lens, it is in our self-interest to, like, take care of the rest of the world because our health is so intertwined with everyone. And I do think that eliminating infectious diseases would be, like, a net positive on that, like, us-them divide, just because they're kind of inherently, like, you have a disease and could infect me. So it's a disease that kind of pits people against each other naturally. And like, that's obviously really bad. I'm like, it's not anyone's fault. But you can see that, like, even with COVID.

Can I just ask a quick question about that, which is what you said is really quite true. But it is also true that the current leadership of the United States has rejected that approach to the world. Do you think this international pandemic will change minds to a degree that we can start thinking a little bit more about protecting ourselves by protecting others?

I think it really depends on if the narrative shifts and I guess that's like, all has a lot to do with the election. But I think if the people kind of continue with the current rhetoric, then we were probably just gonna like fall into the same mistake or maybe have like temporary change and then go back to the way we are. And like the over there language I use is like from, or at least where I remember that from, is like how our idea of over there got destroyed by the bombing of Pearl Harbor and that something so far away could intimately affect us. But that also would suggest that people are kind of gonna maybe momentarily change and then go back to the way things were.

This is great. That's a great response. And I wanna highlight one thing and then pass it back to Naomi to wrap this up. Sivaj, to ask you to help us parse this chat and get it out to everybody and John for the closing comment. But the thing to loop back to from today is you can experience a pandemic from the perspective of Rousseau and parse it as a public health crisis, a global public health crisis, and to act together to mitigate suffering globally. Or you can parse it through the perspective of Hobbes, that this is a security issue. This is an act of violence. And depending on which frame you invoke or which frame gets invoked by the culture of the body politic, you will either be more likely to work together across boundaries or faction in opposition. So it's pretty interesting to ponder some of this. As bioengineers, you might not have expected to be deeply connected to political theory, but here we are. And as you become leaders in particular ways, this type of thinking and decision-making will become as essential, if not more important to how much nerd awesomeness you can bring. Both are important, but this is really critical. So thanks again for really amazing feedback from the breakouts. Naomi, you want to have any final word on the breakout?

I mean, I think you had a – you kind of had a good summary. I think – yeah. But I think you guys all – like, these are really great comments. We will try to synthesize them all and kind of make a brief post about kind of a summary. But thanks for all – for all of you guys for participating so well in these breakout sessions. John, did you have any specific announcements about assignments and...

I have two announcements. Actually, I have three announcements. First of all, please start looking for P-SET 2. That is up or will be up shortly. Two, I wanted to speak specifically about what's in the packages that you've received from us, because I think it's important that you all, as informed receivers of these packages, know what you're holding. They're all very benign objects, one of which is an origami microscope made here at Stanford that's basically paper and plastic. The colorful liquids that you received are part of another lab that is called Dancing Droplets. These are solutions of water and propylene glycol, which is a common food additive. In fact, it's food grade. I don't recommend drinking it, but in theory you could, along with some food coloring, plastic pipettes, and some glass slides. The reason why we asked you not to open these packages is because those glass slides have been treated such that their surfaces are ultra clean. This is necessary for the experiment. We're gonna ask you also to do a cleaning step before we run that experiment later on, but that cleaning step is much easier for you if those glass slides are left unperturbed in their original packaging. So if you've received these packages, that's awesome. We're really excited. If not, we expect that the internationally shipped packages should arrive by Monday. If you ask for a domestic package and haven't received it yet, please ping the instructing staff. Last announcement, next week we're going to be getting into a lot of really cool nitty gritty around engineering the individual molecular machines that make up life. Like, so we're going to peer into the cell and look at subcellular machinery, how they interact and how we can engineer those objects such that we can do things as bioengineers. We also recognize that this is an introductory course and there are no prerequisites of any biological information needed to join this class. But there are prerequisites of biological information that you need to understand these lectures. So in order to bridge that knowledge gap, we are hosting on Sunday during my office hours a biological on-ramping session in which we're going to cover just nitty-gritty basics of molecular biology and biochemistry. We're going to describe what DNA really is, what proteins really are, how they're made, how information flows in biology, how biology regulates itself. So if you feel shaky on any of the specifics of the biology, I strongly recommend you pop in. 