Well, so I'm quite lucky through my work with Revive and Restore that one of our roles as an organization is to connect people and convene meetings that bring biotechnologists with conservationists together. And, you know, there are people in almost every country of the world that are thinking of what bioengineering could do for them, either in biomedicine, agriculture, and more and more thinking about what it can do for nature, because one of the cool intersections right now for bioengineering and conservation and biomedicine is the fact that human health involves the environment. One of the hottest things in a lot of people's minds is malaria, and how many people it kills every year from mosquitoes. And could we engineer mosquitoes to stop transmitting malaria to people? Or engineer mosquitoes, simply to eliminate the three species that transmit the disease and leave all the other mosquito species and insects that pollinate flowers and do things in nature. And by thinking of how do we help human health, knowing that the problem comes from another species has forced people in biotech and medicine to think of the environment and the ecosystem. And so there's this direct intersection that then people start thinking, well, if we're talking about engineering mosquitoes to help humans, well, mosquitoes are transmitting malaria in Hawaii to native birds. You know, we could do this to save birds. We could do this to, you know, we could do this to save our poultry and then move on to other wild birds and quail in Africa, right? So people are seeing that this is, it's no longer distinct anymore between nature and human. It's really, really interconnecting. And it flares up a lot of opinions about anti-GMO sentiments, what right do we have to alter people or other species? But at the heart of it is this concept that there is technology now that forces us to have these questions that can be used for incredible, incredible changes in the world that are good. But how do we ensure that we actually do those things, not just for good intentions, but with responsible process so that the outcomes are as intended? And yes, it's really cool. You can get into this just through the network of people thinking about it from ethics and policy. And, you know, I guess, you know, we're looking at a future in which people could consider themselves bioengineers who work in politics and never once step into a laboratory. You know, there are things that bioengineering could do that could be imaginably bad. What I worry most about actually is not so much the bad things that could happen, but a system that enables bad players. And so right now, almost everyone working in this field that I know, well, everyone that I know, and I would assume almost everyone, you know, wants to bioengineer the world for good reasons. But not everyone has the same understanding of ecosystems and human societies that can make sure that the idea that they're driving forward actually does deliver a good consequence. So I worry a little bit on the regulation side, but I also worry very much most often that policies and regulations will put a barrier between the concepts and ideas of bioengineering and their real world applications. This is a field where some people get so worried about what could happen that they want to even stop research. And research contained in a laboratory is safe, it's well regulated, there's not only federal laws, but also institutional regulations that are quite oftentimes almost overburdensome. And, excuse me. Yeah, it can be quite overburdensome to a researcher. Sometimes they don't make a whole lot of sense. You know, you can imagine like when you get on an airplane and you think, well, why can't I have a nail clipper. You know, this is a little overboard, but the world of bioengineering is similar at a research level, where people are concerned is I've created something amazing in the laboratory, now I want to use it in the environment. That jump is bigger and we have a lot in place there as well to move forward, but a lot of people they're wanting to stop research before it starts. And we're not going to learn, we're not going to discover, we're not going to make a better world without research. So I'm actually most concerned about the process being cut off than I am about people actually doing potentially bad things with bioengineering. One thing that I can say kind of potentially validates the concerns over bioengineering is the reality that we live in a world with huge, huge economic inequality. And the reason I bring this up is that there are people concerned about biohackers, whether or not people doing private lab work for fun or to create their own patented products will unleash a super virus or do something horrible. And the problem with thinking through that is it actually takes a lot of money to be a bioengineer. It doesn't take a lot of money to set up a laboratory that can do DNA extractions and PCRs, to where you could maybe order a transgene and put it into That doesn't cost a lot of money. But to be able to create an organism that functions and lives requires education. Education is expensive. Understanding what you're doing is expensive. Even if it only costs a few thousand dollars to set up your own private lab to do bacterial research, that is still a pretty large investment for most people living in the United States and most people in the world. And if you want to, say, create a genetically engineered mouse, the microscope you will need just to manipulate an embryo costs $150,000. There's a huge barrier economically to being a bioengineer that is capable of doing something that actually has potentially large impact to the rest of the globe. That's why most of, almost all of this research that's having real significant change for medicine, agriculture, or nature is occurring at universities where there has already been millions of dollars in grant money to set up laboratories, to establish the infrastructure to do this, where people have 10 to 20 to 30 years of career experience building this field. Those are the people that will make a difference, not the biohackers. But maybe in 40 to 50 years, biohacking will be something where someone comes up with a cure for a disease in their little lab space. But I guarantee for the next 50 to 100 years, those people are still going to be what we would consider rather gentrified, rather privileged. And so, you know, no matter how much we try to make it cheaper to engineer complex organisms, it still takes a lot of money to get into it. And what concerns me about that is if we don't change society and our economic structure, what we're doing is we are enabling the extremely rich to potentially build their own bio labs and do whatever they want above the radar of the regulations where that public institutions and even many commercial institutions have to adhere to that no other normal person or regular income person can do. And then it becomes something that it doesn't matter if the public speaks out or whatnot, is that no one can really have a strong voice against the world's billionaires. As an advocate for my job and my organization, Revive and Restore, I really should say I really hope that bioengineering solves, you know, some major nature problems, and I do. But actually, personally, I'm really hoping that bioengineering gives us as human beings medical breakthroughs that finally allow us to maybe live in a little less fear of things like cancer, that allows what I would really love to see is a world where no one has to suffer the symptoms of genetic disorders anymore, or die from genetic disorders. So I want to see a world where people born with tysax disease don't die from that disease and live a normal healthy life, that people born with muscular dystrophy can be Olympic medal winning athletes, that people born with certain types of genetic blindness open up their eyes for the first time and see because they've been cured before it happens. And, you know, that's a world where CRISPR and gene editing technologies actually can get us there and there are already human trials doing that. And so what I want is for those cures, literal cures, to problems that could have never been cured without bioengineering before to be available and free to everyone. I want a world in which we come up with ways where we can have a higher quality of life, the longer we live. I want people in their 90s to feel like they are 30 years old and have people that don't degrade as they age, just because it's the biological condition. I don't necessarily think we need to be people that live a lot longer, but I think we don't really know the limits of the human brain or the human body, simply because we haven't really optimized aging. We eat better now, we have more food security now in many places, so we're living longer, but we haven't figured out the right medical attention to live longer in a good quality way. So, you know, I want to overcome that. And then when it comes to nature, as I've kind of already said it, I really want... If I were to say there's one thing I want to see in the next 10 to 20 years, it's a genetically engineered organism in the environment. A whole population of them restoring an ecosystem, doing what they were naturally evolved to do, but what they got compromised from doing due to human activities. I want to see resilience in nature. And of course, personally, I want one of those species to be a recreated passenger pigeon. So, I guess we didn't really cover this, but I should just say to everyone that one of parts of my job for Reviver Store is a project to recreate the extinct passenger pigeon, among many other projects to use biotech with nature. The reason the passenger pigeon is really my favorite species, and I'm so passionate about it, is I learned about them when I was about 13 to 14 years old. And if you read the accounts of the passenger pigeon, they were once the most abundant bird on the planet. A single flock of passenger pigeons could have been 2 to 3 billion birds in size. And they flocked so densely that when they flew overhead, people said it was as if there was a solar eclipse. I mean, they blotted out the sun and it was dark. They created their own wind. They were a force of nature that's really difficult to imagine today because there's nothing of similar abundance and size today. And really, nature used to be like that everywhere. Maybe not billions, but here in North America, before the arrival of Europeans, there were nearly 100 million human beings living alongside 5 billion passenger pigeons, 50 million bison, 500 million prairie dogs, I think maybe 500 million geese, over a billion total numbers of different species of ducks. This is a continent with life everywhere. It's what you read in the accounts that these settlers come in and they're like, oh my gosh, today we saw this, this, this, this. And that's not what we have anymore. And I believe just that bio-abundance is captivating and fascinating. And it begs the question of why can't we have that today? What is it about that that would scare people today? How are we so distant from this power of nature that we're scared of these things, things that we really should be in awe about? I've always been in awe. I was born and raised in a rural natural setting and I want to see huge herds of buffalo. I want to see huge flocks of birds. And so, you know, it's just its history captivates me. And the more I research the bird and the more I've learned about it, the more we've come to understand in the field that this species is actually vital to the forest ecology of the eastern United States. This was a species that was flocking in billions of birds anywhere from maybe 50,000 years to a million years ago, shaping the evolution of species that we think, wait a second, you know, a pigeon or a bird couldn't do that, right? That the evolution of oak trees themselves, giant oak trees, is shaped by pigeons, you know, is kind of phenomenal and mind-blowing. But it's true that we have trees and plants and other species whose evolution for hundreds of thousands of years was shaped by these pigeons and that are in a state today of trouble because they need the types of things those pigeons did in the environment, the disturbances and the nutrient transport and the things that they were doing, we need that back. And so, yeah, so it's just anyone that wants to look up the story of these birds. There's a lot of kind of folklore out there, but I've got some talks online about our research and other stuff like that, that you can get kind of the lowdown on what passenger pigeons were. They're an elegant and beautiful bird. They're not the street bird that you often think of when it comes to a pigeon. And for me, passenger pigeons, I hope for other people too, would be kind of a gateway animal into realizing there's actually a lot of diversity to pigeons in the world. From Victoria crown pigeons that are the size of a small turkey that are blue with blood red eyes and fruit doves that have pink heads and lime green bodies to desert living pigeons with black faces and long tails. There's 350 species of pigeons and doves in the world on every island and continent outside of the Arctic realm. They don't like the cold. And, you know, there's a whole lot there. And then if you look at regular pigeons that inspired Charles Darwin's work, you know, go to a pigeon show and see fancy pigeons and you can see what human beings have been able to do through selective breeding. So there's 350 different species of pigeon in the world, but there are nearly 700 different breeds of just one species, the rock pigeon. Some of them are so different. It's that back in Charles Darwin's day, people actually thought they didn't know, they'd forgotten the history of how the domestic pigeon was domesticated. So there were different breeds of domestic pigeon that people actually thought were different genuses of bird because they were so different, but they're the same animal. You know, there's a lot. This is cool stuff.