He looked at all these other Black directors, Robert Townsend, all them guys, he looked at all what they did and said, okay, well, I started differently for them. No, I did not go to film school or art school, but I know how to hire experts. No, I don't know anything about marketing and distribution, but I can research and get lawyers, right? And then when it was time to make it to the next level, he did Lionsgate, and that's why he still has to deal with Lionsgate today. That's why he's been the only one to maintain that distribution deal, because he did his homework, guys. You guys got to be hungry. You got to do the work outside. You got to learn, you know, from the past of what they did, and full circle, right? I just talked about General Motors and Motown, right? So I'll tell you this, to put it in the plainest words, and so you can get to your next question, because I know I'm long-winded, but in order to be successful, you have to choose what success you want and what that looks like and what are the different pathways to get it. And last but not least, to sum all that up, what is your appetite for risk? Success all goes down to what's your appetite or risk, and that determines the level of success you want and what kind and what you want it to look like. If I want to leave my work at work and have my vacations with my family, pay for college, have a nice house, and just retire and be able to take care of my immediate situation, maybe do some volunteer work, go be an employee. Hell, go punch a clock is what you need to do, and there is nothing wrong with that. I commend that. Trust me. I think about like, maybe I should just go punch a clock. It'd be a lot easier than dealing with this, right? The next one to that that's a little bit higher than that is, okay, well, go be a salary employee, right? But what comes with that is what? Responsibility. So versus a hourly employee, a salary employee may not be able to take the vacations all the time when they want to take it. They may have to, more than likely, always bring some type of work home to finish it and not get paid for it. You will have to deal with people reporting to you, whether it's directly or indirectly, and be collaborative to get your work done. But nevertheless, you still have this built-in thing where you know your paycheck's coming from, right? You know exactly what it's going to be. You know exactly what your tax is going to be. You know exactly what your bills are, and you kind of know some way when you're getting to equity. But for most people, you know what steps to take to escalate to get up to director and C-suite role, right, once you get to that point. That's one way. Then you have one where you say, well, I just want to make my own hours and leave work at work, maybe take something home and, you know, do something a little bit different but have my own control. That's small business. You take your own money, you invest it, you come up with something, whether you do some of your own in retail or food service or whatever the case, cosmetics with barbershops, whatever, nails, whatever. Or you do a franchise and you invest your money into a Chick-fil-A, McDonald's, whatever, and you expand from there. And that is a great infrastructure if you want to do it that way because you can start literally what you have and do it, right? But if you want to be over here where I'm at with venture capital and a billion dollar industry with the potential for billions and millions of dollars, trillions of dollars of revenue and make an impact, a real dent, not just in your immediate family neighborhood situation, but in more of a global domestic situation, then you're going to have to put in that time. That is not teachable. What college and what's your employment experience, because that's important too, you can't, you know, I know we got, you know, you see, excuse my language, so many white folks jump from college to VC back, right? You want to give me some examples? Theranos. You got Theranos. I think, who we just had recently? Somebody else just came out with something bogus. I can't think of the company. But anyway, you got that part, right? You got non-profitable companies like Uber, non-profitable. Tesla, non-profitable. Twitter, non-profitable. SpaceX, getting millions of dollars, billions of investment, non-profitable. What's the coworker space guy? I forgot his name. Oh yeah, the WeWork guy. WeWork, non-profitable, right? That's what they do. But folks that look like you and me, they're going to ask you when you become a profitable, how much, they're going to quiz you like you a neuroscientist in your business. And so, therefore, you got to do the extra work to be able to track those dollars, hit those milestones, and have a real impact on our community. And guess what? It ain't new to us. We did it already. You know when we did it? We did it during slavery. If it wasn't for us being smart enough to come up with things like the cotton gin and all these other different areas to help ourselves to make our lives somewhat easier that was within our control, we wouldn't have America what it is today. If we didn't build Black Wall Street, if we didn't do all these extra things like I'm just now learning about. I just partnered for a workforce development program with this organization called Philadelphia OIC, and it was founded by a civil rights leader back in, I say he's back in the 1940s, 1950s as well. So, he was right along there, 50s and 60s with Martin Luther King and Malcolm X. His name was Dr. Leon Sullivan, and he started a workforce development organization that not just spread domestically where he put his first one at in Philadelphia, it spread global. In fact, his set of principles were what was used to formulate the agreement and documentation to get Nelson Mandela and apartheid to end. No, I've never heard of Dr. Sullivan until recently. My mentor now, Sheila Ireland took over as president and CEO a few months ago. So, these are things that guys, we've already done research and it's obviously had an impact. Oh, full circle again, Dr. Sullivan was the first African American to be on the board of General Motors. You see how I keep making these connections, right? And each one of those cats did something very unique, but they had to take their own reins. They took their foundation of knowledge, whether it was traditional college and a lot of them had a lot of influence from the pulpit, right? Malcolm X, Martin Luther King and Sullivan all had a large foundation of support from the pulpit that did what? And they did it differently and it impacted business. Dr. Sullivan personally took it personal when they would not hire his people in North Philadelphia to work at factories like Tasty Cake. Y'all eat Tasty Cake, right? Y'all eat them damn donuts. He told them for about 90 days straight, every Sunday, do not buy Tasty Cake. Within 90 days, they sales plummeted. Guess what happened? Dr. Sullivan, we're going to go ahead and hire your folks. We got this. Oh, now you need us, right? That's what's going to happen. I'm not saying everybody has to be a venture-backed company, but if that's what you want to do, then you have signed up to be a leader. You have signed up to do the extra work for the long nights, long days of traveling. You have signed up to be humble enough to be broke and have a change of lifestyle than what you used to have if you was like me that was making seven, I mean, six figures and living in LA and doing what I did best at that time. But I knew if I stayed, if I did not make the strategic move to get back to the Ecos and get back to work from my perspective, then I wouldn't have what I'm doing today. And more importantly, outside of myself, I wouldn't be able to impact my community and where I'm trying to take our Black and Brown community to the next level. What drives me every morning is knowing that I have an opportunity to change the way that my people are accustomed to living, right? And it's a force of custom, right? We didn't ask to be brought over here. We didn't ask to be slaves. We didn't ask to live in these different areas that we call ghettos or hoods or whatever. And it's funny, right? Because if you're Jewish and you say you're from a ghetto, it's understandable, right? Understandable, even though they came over here by choice. We say we're from the ghetto, it's looked at like we're lazy. We ain't got no drive to do shit. In reality, the only times you're put in the ghetto because it's something that's forced. You're segregated, you're outcasted, you're told that you're different, you're told that you don't fit, right? So that's what drives me every day is being a part of a culture which entertainment is starting to do, not that they haven't, but you're really starting to do well. You're starting to see a lot more African-American shows that accurately depicts the African community at all levels of income, from All Rise to Reasonable Doubt to Hell, Take Your Pick. There's a ton of them out there, right? And so that's what drives me every day. Another thing that drives me every day is just knowing that I want to retire my parents, right? I got the support of my family right now, a lot of support of my family right now. And so I want to retire them and reward them for sticking with me to ride this thing out. And then the second question you said, what about bioengineering? Yeah, what specifically about bioengineering? I would say being able to, because so the name of the company is Lucas Pop Bio, contract drug manufacturer. We work in partnership with Jefferson University right now. We're able to perform or execute preclinical services. So we can develop a manufacturing process, including the cell line development, actual formulation recipe, and we can produce or manufacture material for animal studies. The future facility that we're building in Southwest Philadelphia, which will be a CG&P 80,000 square feet facility. And that's where we'll be able to start manufacturing for human clinical trials in the commercial market. Once those respective products are approved by a regulatory agency. So what drives me with that as a CDMO is that I get the opportunity to work with our target market, which are startups. I get the opportunity to work with a large amount of minority owned startups. So these are startups that are black and brown, whether they're Spanish descent, African descent or Indian descent or West Indian descent. But a lot of these companies don't have an opportunity to get the products off the ground. A lot of these companies just simply license their product and they lose out on money. So they can't necessarily always sustain their pipeline or other discoverable, drugable assets they may have in a pipeline. Or it may be something to the effect where because they can't get the product licensed because it doesn't have a favorable population to big pharma, meaning it's not enough money to them. It doesn't affect a lot of people, even though it disproportionately affect some of these disease indication, viral indication, disproportionately affect us as a people. So I get an opportunity to work with those companies to make an impact in my community. So it's just knowing that I think for me it's innovation of all. It's an opportunity to make an impact on a global scale. It's an opportunity to allow longevity of life for our people in more ways than one, not just that patience, but being able to help close that wealth gap, provide high quality jobs, high wage jobs, giving them the opportunity to pass on something to the next generation of their family, whether it's closing the wealth gap and or providing an opportunity for them to do the fullest of their educational priorities for what they want to do in any industry. It doesn't have to be life science. It's all these things that are definitely taken for granted and are considered rights and staples of the Caucasian community that I can help transform to not be something as a privilege in the Black and Brown community, but it also become a staple and a requirement as far as expectations in our community as well. First question, no. So we actually have a workforce development program that we're piloting here in Philadelphia where we're training members of underserved communities with at least a GED or high school diploma to be a bioprocess operator or a quality control technician in the lab. So no, we're only requiring a sixth grade level of education as far as being able to read, write, and do math. And the reason for that is because everything is done according to what we call a standard operating procedure. So it's like a recipe. So similar to if you're working at In-N-Out and you have to follow instructions, how to construct a burger, how to cook the burger to a certain temperature, all that stuff, you do the same thing with manufacturing drugs and before you're following instructions, you do everything in twos, never by yourself, and you always use a calculator. Even down to, even if they're still using paper documentation, we oftentimes have the boxes to indicate how many decimal places to go over. We have instructions to say round this number, the number that you round up or down, that box is underlined. It's so many things that as long as you can read and write at a sixth grade level and have a high school diploma or GED that you can do. So those programs are starting to come more out there, but we're definitely exclusively doing that one out there. And then we have it two-fold. So we got the entry level and then we have one for people that already work in industry that may want to level up. So if you're a manufacturing worker, you want to switch over to quality assurance or quality control, we got certificates through that, through ISP, ASQ, and RAPS. So that's International Society for Pharmaceutical Engineering. ASQ is American Society of Quality and Regulatory is Regulatory Affairs for Professional, Regulatory Affairs Professional Society, I think. I might have that wrong. Sorry, RAPS. So now the second part of it is, what was the second question you asked me? The second question is if you were to go back to college now, what would you have pursued? What would you study? I wouldn't change anything. The only thing I would change in USC, University of Southern California, don't be pissed with me, but if I had known about RAPS then, I would have got the certification and not went to school. And the reason why I say that is because when I came to USC, I already had industry experience. I already had experience working with FDA, Europe, and Japan, doing regulatory responses and drafting things. And I've done all that, responded to 43s. I had done all that at that time. So had I known about RAPS, I just would have got the certification that I could have got done in a couple of weeks versus the two-year program that took $60,000 out of my pocket to get a master's degree. And that was my second master's degree. So that's the only thing I would have did different is take advantage. And I encourage you guys now, not every industry requires for you to be a PhD or a master's. Definitely with pay, master's does help. PhD, not necessarily. You'll spend that money and still not get a pay raise, especially in life sciences. But the certifications is what helped you get along further. And it's the best kept secret. So what you may not know is that in industry, oftentimes these certifications are paid for by big pharma, but they only pay for director level up to get them. Now think about that. By the time you get to director level, you should know this. Why am I paying? Even without a certification, you should have that much experience. You should know it, but there's a gap. So they're paying for them to fill that gap versus us that may be at lower levels on what I like to call the shop floor for 20 to 30 years that already have that knowledge. Without a certification, you just don't have the piece of paper to prove it or the title to prove it. So that point, it makes sense for you to go the certification route, pay the one-time fee of maybe five, 10, or figure out a way to get your company to pay for it too, or save your tax money and pay for that so that you can level up and go to the job. If you can't level up where you at, then you do like I did where you'll notice my LinkedIn profile moved every two and a half, three years on purpose because for some reason, that's the only way they take us seriously is having qualifications at a certain levels if we come from the outside. If we stay there too long, then they, for some reason, same like slavery, you only look at us where we started, not where we're going. Yeah. So heavily working on trying to finish acquiring this land and then start construction. We just received a $2.5 million grant from the state of Pennsylvania to help with construction, engineering, and build out of our life science park in partnership with Urbane here in Philadelphia. So that's big for us. We're in the middle of trying to complete a tech transfer for one of our customers. That deal right now, for the first part of the deal, which includes tech transfer and the development, investigation and development of the actual larger scale manufacturing process is worth about 125K. And that's for a proprietary cell therapy media, but they also have a drug that will hopefully get that contract as well. We're still working on that. And so the overall contract product for the media product will probably be, look, I say it won't be that much from my perspective. But our price, it'll probably get up to maybe a half a mil, maybe a little bit over half a mil for the proprietary media product. That's just for getting the process developed and manufacturing product for CGLP, which is still research and development. When they move into CGMP, then we may inch up, but that'll be on the regular cadence. And there'll be, excuse me, larger volumes at that point. So maybe we'll ink out a little over a million from just that product when it's all said and done. And then the drug product easily could be in the area of, for preclinical studies, there'll probably be around 15 to 20 million. And if we continue on from there and from clinical to the commercial market, there'll probably be maybe an additional 42 to 50 million, probably a little bit higher than that because of the clinical trial piece and how much product you have to have to service phase one, phase two phase, especially phase two, phase three, a lot more products. So that will probably be, I don't think it's going to be exactly at a hundred million, but it'll be probably close to it for the drug product. And that's coming from the same customer. And so then we're in the process of recruiting other customers. We finally getting re-signed a huge marketing deal, some paperwork. I've been negotiating that deal for two years. Did y'all hear what I said? Two years I've been negotiating with a lawyer back and forth to get this marketing deal, which is going to help us with our customer pipeline, rebuild our website, and get our name and our technical capabilities out there a lot more with white papers and things of that nature, which is really huge in our industry. And then outside of that, I just came back from the White House back in September and speaking on a bioeconomy, biotechnology panel. So we're waiting to hear back. And so we got to start getting with the lobbyists to keep our ears to the ground so that when that contract comes out, which is also financing to help support, build out of our facility, we could be ready to take advantage of that contract. And then there's some other things we look into. I'll share a little bit of it, but as we, we're in inflation, I'm pretty sure they're going to say we're in a recession first and second quarter. And so when you think of recession from these are the different mindsets, and I'll go through it again. And for my hourly working, I think a recession, I'm like, oh, I might get laid off. Maybe let me put in some extra time or go get a second job. If I'm in the salary level, it's like, ooh, let me make sure my actual role is relevant so that I don't be included in these huge layouts that you're starting to see with Twitter and Amazon and all those folks at the salary level be like, oh, let me make sure it's relevant. If it's not, let me volunteer, stay a little late, right? Because you don't get no extra pay, but it's just making yourself stand out, right? If I'm a small business owner, ooh, if we're in a recession, what kind of product, what kind of service can I offer to help my community to purchase at a cheap price so I can maintain business if these other things don't sell? If I'm venture capital bank like I am, hmm, how can I pivot to meet the market needs and what does that look like, right? And so for venture capital bank, it's a lot bigger. Like what am I going to do that's innovative, that meets the needs, that can give me the biggest bang for my buck if I was to attract a large account holder of whatever it is that I sell? And so let's just say healthcare is one of those things that has longevity, right? Whether it's a recession, depression, we're good, whatever. People always think pandemic, non-pandemic, epidemic, Pandora, I don't call this thing non-pandemic. But whether you have that, healthcare is always in. And so as a biotech company, that's one of the things that you can look at. You can look at what you're good at. You can look at the expertise of your team. What is financially appetizing to investors because we're a venture-backed company. So how can I attract additional investors? How can I attract additional money from the current investors I have or that I've been building relationships with that, what is this thing that's going to trigger? And so one of the things that trigger healthcare is how are we going to maintain healthcare costs? How are people going to hold on to their prescriptions for prescriptions they may have to take every day for the rest of their life, right? So let's just say LucasPotBio is just highly interested in the biosimilar biobetter market. And we just started those conversations yesterday. So we'll see what shakes out. For me, I think what's most important next 20 years is really bringing down the cost of goods and services for manufacturing to help encourage companies such as big farmers and other ones to bring down these drug prices. I just had a conversation right before I got on the phone with you for, you know, talking about the cell therapy industry and great technology, you know, novel technology, obviously doing what it's due. You still got former president Jimmy Carter standing there. I think, hell, he looked like he going in reverse last time. I saw him wrinkles fading and all that kind of stuff. But the reason why he is doing as good as he's doing or similar to Magic Johnson with what he has for his treatment for his HIV is because they have the money. They have the access to this technology to enable them to have longevity and be comfortable. And then they also have things to make them de-stressed in their life, right? They have money. They can go to spas. They can take trips. They can, this is getting too much and go sit somewhere during a pandemic for two years in the sun, not doing eating shrimp. And so what I'm hoping is that for bioengineers, that we find a way to really bring in higher titers of these products and lower the cost of goods and the manufacturing costs so that the people that actually need this can have it. You know, in black and brown community, when we get sick, it's just such a huge detrimental, you know, impact on the immediate family and extended family from that, right? Because nine times out of 10, it's the key people that are working the hardest that are the bread runners of the family that gets sick. And it's because they don't have the luxury. Like I told you about hourly worker, you know, you may not have the luxury of taking time off when you want. You're going to get it, but you may not be able to use it when you want to use it because you're the beck and call of that particular employer. So we're able to bring down the cost of drugs to help people get back on their feet a lot quicker and do what they need to do or not impact how we so often see black and brown families have kids in college or in graduate school that often have to drop out to come help in and support the parent. Imagine if we had these drugs at a cheaper price with a parent or the person that's sick and get back on their feet fairly quickly and do what they need to do for their families. That changes our wealth gap and our income generation situation, or even just being business owners. That takes out them too, right? And that small business track is only you sometimes that's working, maybe one other employee. So as soon as you out, that's the downfall of your business. So making these drugs more affordable, working more closely with the federal government and being, even at the engineer level, being transparent on the actual cost to make these drugs, to formulate these drugs, is what I hope to see in the next 20 years.