You know, and then it goes on from there, but there's some basics, right? Food, water, shelter. What we're doing at Microworks right now, selling, you know, this like very, very nice exclusive material to luxury brands is not stuff that you need for survival, right? Like that's like luxury by definition is excess. It's more than what is baseline needed. But if you have the wealth and you have the leisure and the access, then you can afford luxuries, right? So where ethics comes in for me, for what we're doing with Microworks starts within our walls. So I, as chief of culture, I'm like, all right, you know, we're trying to create a company where we are taking care of the people within our company in a way that aligns with our values. And, you know, that in a company has very literal meaning. Like, are you paying people enough? Are you giving them, you know, proper health benefits and support? Are you making sure that you're creating culture where everyone feels respected and can show up as their authentic selves, right? Everyone's included. There's no like us and them. Do we welcome in people who are traditionally marginalized in like corporate environments or, you know, the pockets of the world that are funded by venture money? So it starts with actually the material needs of the people here. And then to expand that out, the ethics of the company are, can we bring this technology and material to a large scale so that a lot of brands and companies can use it in a way that minimizes harm and negative impact either on our environment or like on the industry in terms of what we're modeling as a company. And so that's where it gets a little bit abstract and you can get into arguments about what is good and what is bad and what is a compromise. And, you know, we all are existing within global capitalism. So what is, you know, how do you evaluate the goodness of what we're doing? And so that's why I'm very grounded in materialism where I'm like literally who benefits, who is harmed and you start from there and you kind of, you keep your eye on that along the way. Well, I'm in a really fortunate position at Mikeworks because I am a founder. So I was grandfathered, grandmothered in, you know, so I'm now in like a very rare position of being like an executive leader at a biotechnology company by way of having co-founded it. I don't know that I would have been hired into this role given my background. I mean, I have a PhD in English, you know, like it's a very wild story how I got here. So for people looking to enter into a space like this other than co-founding your own enterprise, which I also recommend if you're up for it and you find a good crew of people to work with, it's a fun ride and it's intense and it's hard, but it's rewarding. What you absolutely want to do is look for the values that are visible and tangible in any project or organization that you're trying to join or sussing out because it'll become really clear in like the interactions, the inclusion, how power is shared, you know, who has a voice, who doesn't, whether that's a place that, you know, you want to bring your rare skills and value and resources to. There's something to be said for being a change agent, like being that like ambassador who's able to code switch and move through a lot of different spaces. And I say code switch very seriously because I'm an artist and academic who had to learn the language of corporate organization and management and also like learn the language of pitching to venture capitalists. And so like as an English, you know, English major, English PhD, this was very interesting to me. For me, it's just about like, oh, it's just learning a bunch of languages and each one has a different value system. And, you know, now I understand this culture and let me go look at that culture. So you can be very fluid if you think about it like anthropologically that way, where you're like, all right, what's this environment I'm about to enter? So this goes back to that first thing I said about like the system, like ecosystem. Like if you understand as an ecosystem, you understand the dynamics, the historic dynamics that are there. And you also understand that it's a living system that can be shaped and steered. Just are you, you know, is that your fight that you wanna fight? And so, you know, I have had a long history of helping white people understand racism or understand the experience of being a not white person in cultures of white supremacy or, you know, just even microaggressions, the world of microaggressions have had a long, long practice of helping people see and understand that. And so a really important thing for any young person setting out with those kinds of ethics and investment in changing the world that way is to have really clear boundaries about when you do that work and when you don't. And that applies to your personal relationships, but it absolutely applies in your professional environments as well. It's an important way to avoid being tokenized or exploited for, you know, being a representative of a person of color within a space that's not fully committed to actually doing the work, everyone doing the work, whether you're a person of color or not to raise the level of awareness and the level of dialogue that everyone's participating in. So it's really like you have to check the values of the environment and the ecosystem that you're entering to make sure that it is a supportive place for you. And if not, there's many places that are available to you in the world. And some, you know, some places are a little slower to get on this ride, this journey. And, you know, you could make the choice to be like, I'm gonna help shepherd this group of people to a newer, better place. Or you could be like, you know what? Someone else is gonna do that work and I'm gonna go over there where it feels more like this is my level. Everyone in every culture is a product of a long period of influence, right? And so it's not any, I mean, this is a very optimistic, positive view, but it's not any one person's 100% fault. I mean, a really, really bad person who's not getting with it has made a lot of bad choices, but it came from somewhere. They learned it somewhere. It was validated somehow by some other force and some other reward system, right? So you just think of it as a system that way, where there's power dynamics and there's forces and there's people, you know, again, the materialism thing is like, what are the actual forces in play? Physical, like it sometimes feels physical forces, material rewards and inputs that are creating the system and how can you be a bug in that system, change it? Yeah, I think it depends a lot on what you want to do. So, you know, there are mycologists, biochemists, material scientists, engineers on our team, process engineers on our team, who I think to learn what they know how to do, school helps, but industry helps as well. So I feel like as long as you have some baseline principles for, you know, the technical knowledge, for the area that you're interested in and that can be happen a lot of different ways. It can absolutely happen on a hands-on, you know, apprenticeship style experiential way. And it can also happen within a school learning environment. That's really helpful. And then, you know, there are people who are on our team who did not graduate from high school, right? Like they followed a different path. They have developed like a whole other set of skills that are like absolutely applicable to what we're doing to create our material. So, you know, there's a lot of ways into this to say nothing of the fact that this is a biomaterials company that was started by artists. So Phil and I happen to have gone to college, but you don't have to go to school to be an artist. You know, yeah, we're biased as academics. Like I think school is a great environment to meet a lot of bunch of other people that are interested in what you're doing, but you can also do that, just getting involved in interesting projects and finding, you know, organizations that are focused on your study. I mean, one thing to say about the mycelium technology space is that because the study of fungi is so new relatively, a lot of the knowledge about mushrooms foraging, identifying them, what they can do came from peer-to-peer DIY networks. So it was people just learning about mushrooms on their own, going on mushroom foraging walks, creating like mycological societies to share information. A lot of the information about, or the knowledge about like cultivating mushrooms actually came out of people understanding the medicinal and like, you know, the medicinal and sacred, like ritual-based use for mushrooms. So people basically growing psychedelic mushrooms and understanding like, oh, here's how you create a clean environment to make sure that you grow the mushrooms that you want. So a lot of the knowledge of mycelium technology came out of non-institutional sources. So absolutely just community, peer-to-peer learning, absolutely just community, peer-to-peer learning. So a lot of wisdom to be found outside of institutions. Well, it's more like if I could leave, live like a bunch of different lives, because I wouldn't want to lose what I did because it's so, and like I've always loved stories and reading and writing. So I think the path of English and literature makes sense and I'm also an artist. So the path of like deepening into art practice and actually having some like college-based, you know, studio practice like as a foundation helped me, but I'm also really interested in philosophy and law. And of course, like, it's sort of like I get my biological sciences information sort of by osmosis, by like everything's around, like by the company that's around me, the people around me. So in a way I feel sort of satisfied there, but I feel like I would definitely find the study of philosophy and law really, really interesting because I think similar to my interest in steering culture, there's a lot of assumptions that people have made, like values assumptions about what is good, what is bad, what's the right way to organize a group of people, what, like why you need to have nations, why you need to have states, like why you even need to have certain kinds of, like legal structures or like governance structures, that stuff we just made up along the way. And at some point, certain things got like, like just rigid, like this is how it has to be. And I don't think things do not have to be that way. Like I said, everything is steerable. And so it'd be interesting to like know all the arguments and to know the key turning points for when certain structures solidified so that you could like twist it. You could go back and be like, well, that is assuming this, this, and this. And now we know that those assumptions are wrong. Or we know that that led to some bad stuff in terms of oppression and hierarchies. And maybe we go back to that turning point and we shift the assumption there and see what happens. So that's interesting to me is to like have, like, cause if you know history, then you know how to not repeat it. You know what to do differently. Well, I'll give a really literal material list answer. So what we're working on right now with MycoWorks is we are building our first commercial scale facility. So our factory here in Emeryville, California does 10,000 sheets a year, which sounds like a lot, but you know, for a company like, you know, Nike or Adidas, like you named before, like they need a whole lot more material to even release one product, right? So what we're doing right now is we're building another factory in South Carolina and it's gonna be a hundred thousand square feet in size. And we're gonna be able to produce several millions of square feet of our material per year. So that is getting to numbers that are actually relevant for a large brand. Or for instance, as a company, we just announced a partnership with GM, which as you know, makes vehicles, cars. And so the idea is they will be a strategic partner for us in scaling our processes and our technology and our product volumes so that we can be relevant to the auto industry. And so the volumes that you're looking at there, think about like all the places in the interior of a car where you have leather or a leather alternative, like a pleather, that's where we're headed. So the world will be different once we build and prove out this factory and show we can do it, because at that point it's like, oh, this is now possible. And so the next question is just where's the next factory and then the next 10, right? 20 or whatever. So it's gonna be a really, really big pivot point for this materials science space at large. And then for us as a company, when that factory turns on and is working and is at full capacity, and that'll be sometime between 2023 and 2024. Oh, the non-material answer. I mean, I think that it goes back to the answer that I gave before, which was a shift. Yeah, like the early tagline that I wrote for the company was let's change the way things are made. And it's a little broad, but I still live by it. Cause it's like, if you can show the world that you can make things using a process that is very like holistically beneficial because you're using waste materials and you're processing waste materials into something of value, and then it can break down and be beneficial, non-harmful to the environment, and you can show that it works and it can be profitable. And it's not like you don't have to compromise in terms of the performance and the aesthetics of the product that you get. Then that gives people the incentive to keep working in that direction. And so that is the immaterial answer, which is also very material. Cause if we can change the way things are made, then literally we're gonna change the way things are made.