the first half of my, I guess, college career, if you can call it that, I didn't take a lot of joy in some of the things that I was learning or doing. Like I was more focused on the transactional part of like, I need to get an A here. And I think that actually backfired in many ways. I mean, like in a very practical, pragmatic way. In subsequent courses, right, I had to go back and relearn a lot of things that I had an A on, but I just didn't know, right? That was hard. The other part is that I, you know, like I love my discipline. I really enjoy being a bioengineer. And at the same time now, today, I think that it's more important that what you do in, I think in college is more important than the courses you just take. And also taking courses outside of your immediate discipline are really important. I am genuinely the example of that, right? So I was on an electrical engineering track. I took a kind of like this, I forget what it was called. It was this elective course that I think someone was teaching because they wanted to teach an easy class talking about secrets of professors. And it was a pretty chill class that they were talking about various technologies that were made for studying biology. And that really captivated, you know, my attention, right? I did not know, like, I think from day one to, this was a 10-week class. Let's say they were meeting like twice a week. So each meeting, other than the exams, I legit learned something that I did not know anything about. It was like going to this class and I think the name of the professor was Professor Bachman. He would tell us about this new crazy thing. I was like, what is that, right? So it was like, and it was electrical engineering adjacent, but it was, you know, not like let's solve another circuit or let's take another Fourier transform. And that was very good because it really, you know, after that class, I signed up to get a minor in biomedical engineering. I ended up taking more BME classes than EE classes at the end. And that's, you know, really changed my, the trajectory of my, I guess, my STEM career. The other part that I should have done, and I was good about this. I took a lot of GE courses. This is my biggest fight with everyone in my lab because they're all awesome STEM students. And you know, like most of them have very, very good GPAs. So we don't fight about anything other than the importance of the GE courses. I wish I was making this up. And I'm in the, you know, I'm in the minority in this where I tell like folks in the lab that your history class is as important as my fluid mechanics class. If not, it's more important because, you know, you're not going to use Navier-Stokes with, you know, like remembering all of the equations. You'll just remember what it's about and you can look it up and you know its consequences. But, you know, like reading and writing well and effectively and thinking about context is something you're going to do for the rest of your life. And they're like, see, well, let's just go away. So this is the fight we have all the time in the lab. But I really think that, you know, even if you're a STEM student, I think this is perhaps my key takeaway. If you're a STEM student, please remember that your GE courses are critical for your career success as a STEM major and your success as a human being. But I think that's another story. And I'm sad to say I've not made good progress on that front. And it's hard. It's really, I acknowledge that it's really hard when, you know, I still, you know, my lab does a hodgepodge of stuff, which is a reflection of, we haven't like, you know, made up our mind fully about who we are. And that's okay. Like not knowing in this sense is completely okay. Or at least I am comfortable with it. And I think it's just good to have a sense of excitement for learning and also acknowledging that learning new things is hard. Like that biology course that I took, I almost like, you know, I'd never struggled with a course as much as that class. And it was so easy to everyone else. But I was like, dude, I don't even know what you're talking about. It's like, the words do not make any sense to me. And it was funny because I had taken OCHEM in high school, actually. So I would understand the OCHEM, but then they would talk about, I forget. But there were so many things that, and we had this giant Bruce Albert's textbook that was like, you know, this brick of a book. So I would sit down and read all of that. But then, you know, like I would, I immediately learned that in similar to engineering, like I think some folks don't like biology because like me, naively, I taught that biology is a lot about memorizing stuff. And that's not it at all. Like, you know, there's a lot of organization in this field. There's a lot of like, you know, when I say organization, I don't mean like cells. I mean like the way that the knowledge is organized. And there's a lot of like, you know, like many, many layers, like length scales of how things are organized so that you would get a behavior. But if, you know, the first time you're learning this, you're just like, what is this pathway? I just got to know this so that I can like pass, right? But, you know, I regret that that's how our education system everywhere is organized. But if you can take a step back, you should get your good grades. But if you take a step back and try to understand as well, like why your friends in biology are really excited about this, that is gonna like give you a lot of very cool opportunities to kind of like bring your thinking, whatever it is, maybe it's engineering, maybe it's arts to that discipline. I think it's really good to learn from a lot of different people that care about very different things. I think the way we think about a major maybe is not fully healthy, even though I am responsible for helping organizing majors in my profession. But I think, you know, major is just a suggestion, right? It's a series of bets that folks who are in that field have placed to say, if you know these things, you know sufficiently so that you can learn for the rest of your life. But, you know, if you may choose not to want to be the carbon copy of Siavash because I exist, right? You might want to be your own, you know, your own kind of like person, your own, like bring your own perspective to it. Maybe that's a better way of thinking about it. So taking classes that are, or learning, not even classes, doing things that are a bit not part of that, like I guess the plan or the path is helpful. I think it helps you think about, or it's been helpful to me. It's helped me think about and learn things that I just couldn't imagine, right? Like sand dollars, I did not know that they look like, you know, the moon lander when they're baby, right? How would you guess that if you've only seen an adult sand dollar, it looks like a circle, right? So yeah, so it's quite amazing to kind of try to think about things that, or be open to learning and accept, I think this part is important, accept that learning is hard. Like the first time you learn something new, you're gonna feel discomfort, right? Because no one likes to feel stupid. But if you accept that, I think you're gonna have a happier time. You know, it's discomforting sometimes when things don't work out the way you'd imagine them. Like, you know, because it means that you missed something or you were wrong, but also it's really, really exciting. That's like, well, you know, there's a new puzzle. There's a, and it's, you're absolutely right. That because of the way I think our education system is configured, folks are just rewarded for knowing the answer to things that are known. And that's, you know, like, I felt bad the first time I got a C in a biology course as well. I absolutely felt bad. But, and maybe I shouldn't have, right? Maybe I should have worked hard, but, you know, at the same time, like the healthier approach is that, well, you know, I learned something new. Yeah, it was hard. And it actually honestly didn't have, in limit of long time, it didn't have a negative impact on my career or my life. Genuinely, like I am not, well, one person happens to know because the person who taught that course ended up being my PhD mentor, actually, in a very funny way. So I think Elliot knows that I got a very low grade in his course, but heck, he hired me after, right? So, you know, like there's things to think about in that case. So like one bad grade did not have, or even multiple bad grades in limit of long time didn't have a profoundly negative impact on my career. I think it's just important to acknowledge that learning is also really hard, right? Learning new things is just a hard business. So I'm only speaking for me. So, you know, we moved to the US when I was at the end of my high school. And I, like most folks, I think at the end of high school, at the beginning of the college, I had a lot of worries. I had a lot of anxieties. You know, being in a new country did not help that either. I feel like that's a inflection point for all, everyone, but, you know, there was another added dimension of, I guess, challenges attached to it. And I actually had to start my academic career at a community college because I had not taken SATs. So I took a year or maybe a year and a half of courses at a local community college before I transferred. And I had this chem professor. His name is Kurt McClendon. And, you know, just by chance, I ended up going a lot to his office hours. And I didn't know what an office hours was. This is a time you, you know, your instructors have open time so you can go and essentially, I guess, ask questions about stuff. So where I come from, there are no office hours, right? Where I grew up, I guess. And so I just figured out that there's this thing that I used to go to office hours and we would not talk about chemistry because I actually happened to knew like most of the material from that class pretty well because we had chemistry in high school. So we would, you know, maybe I had an advantage that way. I was privileged. But we ended, we used to talk about essentially like life, genuinely. And that was really helpful to me because, you know, I was in a period of uncertainty and I am trying to get to this point that Dr. McClendon was not a bioengineer, right? He, I don't, I actually don't know what sorts of chemistry he had studied before being a professor at the community college. But I, but he was very instrumental in helping me kind of ground myself at a uncertain part of my life. And it just happened that he was an academic. Now, I think it's important to find, I guess this is where I'm going with this. It's important to find folks that are willing to, and I know the word mentor has been used a lot, but people who are willing to help you, whether they're mentors, whether they're friends, colleagues. And I think bioengineering as a whole has a good, I have benefited a lot from many folks who have just been kind and generous with their time in this field. To name a handful, like, you know, Will Grover, who's now a professor at Riverside. He was a postdoc when I was a first year grad student. And I just sent him an email, asked him a bunch of questions and he answered all of them and sent in everything that he knew. And my project was based on the work he had done as a, I guess, as a grad student. He could have taught of me as a threat, but instead he was like, okay, there's this, you know, new kid, I'm just gonna help him. Polly Fordyce, who's also at UC, sorry, at Stanford. She, you know, like I remember talking with Polly before like I actually knew her and she was very generous with her time and answering my questions seriously. And I think bioengineering as a whole has a, broadly has a culture for that. And this is not a reflection of other disciplines. I think it's just, so I don't know how other disciplines are. I'm not saying they're not that way. I'm just speaking for bioengineering. I think folks are pretty, broadly pretty open. And I think finding people who can, who are willing to answer your questions seriously and talk with you and willing to spend their precious time with you is really important. And thankfully this community has many of those folks. I think maybe my small success within the community has been genuinely because of everyone who's been generous with their time. So I think of this as a paid forward model. And I, you know, tell this openly to folks in my lab that this is how we, what we strive for, right? That that's what we want, you know, that's an active choice, right? We want to be that way. We could be a different way, but why, right? So I'm not sure if I'm answering your question well, but that's what's on my mind. And I think, you know, like for some reason, we don't do a good job, like speaking of academic stuff, we don't do a good job of telling folks, like for example, what's in office hours, right? I had zero perception of what to expect. And actually I was very productive because I was not going in to ask for the solution to problem four, right? I was just going in to like, be like, hey, what are your thoughts about this thing that's happening to me? And the person on the other end was generous and thoughtful to kind of like give me at least an answer, you know, like not perhaps even the best answer, but just like, this is what I think about it. Now go make up your own mind, right? So I think that was luckily useful, not knowing, you know, what is the expected format, but I think, yeah, hopefully newer folks who are arriving in bioengineering, you know, the field has been generally maybe because of its age, I'm sure, because of its culture has been very open. And also I think younger folks who are now in, have more agency are very thoughtful about it. And that's awesome. That's something that I take a lot of joy in to see like, folks that I was maybe their TA, that they're like, you know, now part of this culture and they're very thoughtful about like, you know, the decisions that they make with respect to the community. Oh, okay, okay. That's a great question. I'm gonna dodge that question to talk about our science and I have a good reason for it. So, you know, so it's not, I'm not trying to like have a favorite project. I honestly mean this with every, like this, like I'm not very like, you know, I don't have a lot of strong beliefs, but this one is a very strong belief. So, you know, my lab is, so universities are divided in various categories. This is not particularly useful to you. The key thing that you need to know is that my lab is focused on, or my school is primarily undergraduate students, right? So we don't train PhD students, but we do research and we do science. Now, the key thing, the key outcome from our lab is actually not the science or the projects or the tools. We take pride in the small successes that we have and we take our work seriously, not ourselves. We take our work seriously, but the key outcome of the lab is the folks who learn how to be scientists and researchers and engineers. And I'm really proud of that. And I, you know, I don't brag, but I'm super happy to brag about that for hours. And we have data and evidence to back that part. I did not expect, so when I signed up for my role, I did not expect that we get as much done as we have with, you know, our lab is 10 undergraduate students. These are folks who are taking a lot of courses. And I think the primary thing, this is how I think in 10, 15 years, I am super excited to see where they go and what they do next, not because they're going to work on, you know, building fluidics that help us study sand dollars. That's really cool. I'm so excited about that. That brings me so much joy. I can talk about that for hours too, but I'm really excited to see what else these folks will do as they go on to do cooler and more exciting things that are really particularly exciting to them. And I take a lot of joy and kind of pride in that. And I'm pretty sure that most, you know, most academic researchers, I'm not at all trying to pretend that I am so unique about this. I'm pretty sure that most academic researchers are like me, that, you know, they love their science. They're a bit nerdy and geeky. You know, they love to think about like hydrodynamics of sand dollars, which the sand dollars don't care about either. But I think they really are in their role because they want to help folks learn and grow. And they're in it, even if they're not fully aware of it, they're in it for the people who are in their lab or in their class. And I think finding people that are the right fit for you at early stages of your career, it's not like, you know, I'm a very good mentor to some students. I'm probably a horrible mentor to some students because of the way I am, right? So finding good fits with people is very helpful and being receptive to kind of like, you know, exploring these things. That's my, I guess, long-winded answer that I'm mostly excited about the folks that are in my team and they're working together. And I just can't wait to see what they're going to do essentially. You know, I'm not sure, but perhaps maybe the most, this is particularly something that I think about. So some folks are worried about missing out of opportunities because of that, they kind of like, either don't start on stuff or they jump around a lot. It's like, oh, I'm going to do a little bit of this, a little bit of that. You know, I just feel like that. Let me put that in perspective of like an experience instead of like, kind of like giving a long-winded answer. So when I started as an undergraduate researcher, my first project was on brain computer interfaces. And that sounded so cool to me. And it's such an important and such a cool research. But in practice, it was mostly programming. I was good at that, but I really didn't enjoy it. And I had a choice, right? The choice was like, I'm going to stick to this and I'm just going to do this, or I'm going to be like, okay, this is an important opportunity, but I'm not liking it. So maybe I should explore something else. And I kind of think that I was really like, you know, thinking back, if I was in that person's lab and we're still friends, he's an awesome professor. I got nothing done, for real. Like I was a horrible undergraduate researcher, probably because I was, you know, everything I did was like really bad, probably because I was not enjoying it, right? My heart was not in it. So I think in that instance, I made a good decision that's like, okay, this is not a right fit for me and I should explore something else. And then I worked on other types of projects. I think being open with yourself in these ways is really important and not worrying about, I'm going to miss out. If I leave this, right, there might be nothing else for me. So I think that was really helpful, like being kind of like, I've made many horrible, bad decisions in that one I'm happy about that. And I'm still actually friends with the professor whose lab was working on and still works on brain computer interfaces. They do brilliant, good work, but you know, that was just not for me. So I think that it's, I guess it goes back to this idea of most of the things we're going to do, particularly in academic research is going to fail. It's going to fail, that's for sure. That's the one certainty. And if you don't take yourself too seriously and it's like, okay, it failed, now we got to do something else. And being okay with, I'm not saying BFA there, I'm saying be okay with the discomfort of things not working out. You'll just have a much more happier time and I would guarantee more productive time in meaningful limits of time. So, and I think I learned that slowly. Like I kind of was not, maybe I made one right decision, but my first few years of my more serious career, I was making bad decisions. It was like, okay, I just got to get this done and I just got to get this done. And that came to me with, you know, like with a lot of like, you know, struggle. And later on, like, well, you know, I learned a ton from this. Maybe it didn't work out the way, the science didn't work out the way I wanted, or maybe I didn't get the product that I wanted out of it. But now I can have more meaningful and better research experiences or life experiences because of it. And I think, yeah, that was an important lesson that I learned very slowly. So I wish I had learned that faster.