Today, we're going to explore the question, why engineer biology? This question is meant not as a prescription, but really as an invitation for you to explore and reflect on what's going on. You oftentimes hear in movies, you know, just because you could do something, should you do it? And so in the spirit of that reflection, let's explore how engineering and biology come together. My name is Drew Endy. The slides are for me. Any mistakes or comments, let me know. There's my email address. Just send me a note. The thing that's so interesting about bioengineering is biology becomes apparent well before engineering. I love this movie, Growing is Forever, short little film, you can find it online. And it's a, you know, representation of what you can find in the woods around Northern California. None of this has anything to do with bioengineering, right? This is all something that exists before homo sapiens come around, humans come around and start doing things. In other words, the planet is full of life. It's full of biology. And it's amazing and wondrous and sacred and many more things you could give name to. So think about this when we think about why engineering biology. So once upon a time, until one day, some of the biology, the human part started happening to the rest of the biology. There's many ways to illustrate this. Here's one of a few examples. Take a look at these fruits and plants on the screen. The three up top, the three down below, and see if you can figure out what they are. I'm sure many of you are familiar with many, if not most, or all of these plants. Watermelon, eggplant, carrot, banana, corn, broccoli. These are the natural ancestors of these plants before they were adapted by our ancestors through a process of domestication and breeding to make the modern forms we're familiar with. So teosinte becoming maize, becoming corn, look at what's in the bottom middle. There's no cob, there's quite a small number of kernels, and so on. So one day, we started happening to biology, we humanity. Why? Well, one of the reasons is we depend on biology for many things, starting with food. So here's a fabulous meal, the first nation's fall celebration. Industrial agricultural today in the United States gets us to a lot more, right? So we're now the largest global exporter of food. This is, in other words, shaped the relationship between human and biology, because we care about what biology can make, because we increasingly depend on what biology can make. We're going to change the biology, historically through domestication of plants and animals. More recently, over the last couple hundred years, but especially over the last 100 years, the science of biology has become so interesting. For example, Barbara McClintock in the middle here, she studied maize and corn and how sometimes corn on the cob, you get different colored kernels and link this back to the idea that some genes can jump around on the chromosomes, so called jumping genes or transposons. More recently, a fourth generation DNA editing tool famously known as CRISPR was discovered and then invented, and it's just so incredibly interesting. By the way, if you want a funny little thing to remember, the scientist down below, Jennifer Doudna from Berkeley, look at her last name carefully. I bet you could impress your friends or parents just by remembering how to spell her name. Do you DNA? Hmm. Kind of cool. Now if we get bountiful manufacturing and growing and science, the next thing that follows, remember this has nothing to do with us yet, this is all before our time, what follows science is often technology. For example, this is a United States patent issued in 1980 to Stanford University. If you look at the title of the patent in the top left, process for producing biologically functional molecular chimeras. What the heck's that? What that means is you can take different molecules of DNA and cut and paste them to make a composite or chimeric molecule. This is part of the birth of genetic engineering in 1980, over 50, no, 40 years ago, right? Now once you get the ability to intentionally intervene in genetic material, see breeding and domestication, that's sculpting from the outside of the traits of a plant or animal back in. But now we're going from the inside and trying to figure out what could happen when we make changes and then the animal show up or the plant shows up. If we can begin to do that, then we're going to have a whole other sort of approach to economic activity. And this can be represented, maybe you've heard of the gross domestic product as a measure of the economy, how much dollars there are being produced in goods and services. You could look at a subset of that and call it the genetically engineered domestic product or the GEDP. And what's shown here over time, starting in 1980, around when this patent comes out, going out to 2017 for what the data is available, you can see that the plots are going up and to the right. And so what that means is the amount of money made in the United States by genetic engineering organisms is increasing over time, or at least it has been increasing over time. And this is because of three major types of products or services. In green are genetically modified organisms, cotton or corn or soy. In red, those are biologics, those are medicines, and then in blue is industrial intermediates. Because this is kind of abstract, I'll give you examples on the next slide. But the takeaway here is, wow, suddenly in 1980, we're getting a tool for the first time we can begin to engineer biology from the DNA outwards. And almost immediately, you start to see this growth of a bioeconomy. And one thing you can think about later is like, how long does it take for the bioeconomy to double, say from $100 billion a year of revenue to $200 billion a year of revenue to $400 billion a year of revenue? Think about where that's going. It's already a huge number, by the way, but think about where it's going. But let's look a little bit more about what these different types of products and services are. So on the top right, we have an example of genetic engineering for medicine. You can take a gene that encodes a protein, insulin, and modify bacteria so that the bacteria makes the insulin for treating diabetes, as opposed to having to harvest insulin from the pig's organs. Or on the bottom left, you could see a papaya that's suffering from a virus infection, in this case, the ring spot virus, as shown in the inset. And Dennis Gonsalves and others figured out that you could genetically modify the papaya so that it could be immune or resistant to the ring spot virus. On the top left, we see this oily yellow material, I believe that's farnesine, an industrial intermediate compound. But what's interesting is where the farnesine is coming from. It's not coming from a barrel of oil or some other thing. It's coming from bioengineered yeast, which are the bluish gray circles much smaller here. And they've been engineered to take glucose or sugar in. And instead of making wine or beer, they're making this oily substance farnesine. Whoa. Bottom right, you see what looks like an animal hide, a leather or something like that. But that's not what it turns out to be. It's a replacement for those types of materials. And instead of being made from a vertebrate, a mammal, it's made from something like this, from a mushroom. And it's growing from wood chips or sawdust. Very interesting. So that's when we talk about food and medicines and industrial intermediates and materials, these are examples of what's in the bioeconomy. It's not all awesome, right? So let's just go to the other side of the coin really quick. Humanity's relationship with biology, it's booming in terms of biotechnology in the bioeconomy. But a whole bunch of things, some of which you're obviously familiar with, but others might be a little bit esoteric, are not going well at all. So everybody's experienced the pandemic. The word pandemic literally means all people. So how about we make that not happen ever more? But what about pollution? If I've got industrial agriculture, and I'm fertilizing the fields, and I have runoff through the rivers, and then suddenly I get a lot of nitrogen and phosphorus in the estuaries, I might get overwhelming algal growth. Or where do I grow these crops? This is an oil palm plantation on the top right. And to grow oil palms, I have to displace the jungle. And if I displace the jungle, then where are the natural creatures going to live? Probably nowhere, which is causing, top left, increasingly things to go extinct, besides So over my lifetime, the human population has doubled. But natural biodiversity seems to have gone down by a factor of two. So begs the question, if we've had this relationship with life that predates us, growing is forever, not totally clear that's a done deal. This is a shocking photograph of a wildfire in California, only about 30 miles from the Stanford campus, near Santa Cruz, California. So is growing forever. How does this then take us to Martin Luther King Jr. and his most famous speech? And so when you think about bioengineering, for me, at least, I think it's impossible to think about bioengineering without thinking about what we wish for. And just to say what this speech was not about, I bet everybody knows this, but I'm just going to say it so we know what it was not about. This very famous speech was not about, I have a degree, or I have a vaccine. The speech was not about, I have a petri dish for doing experiments, not at all. It was not, I have a bio, it was about none of the things we've been talking about, at least not yet. This speech, as we know, is I have a dream. Now, what's this have to do with bioengineering? We'll see. It turns out, from an engineer's perspective, we can think of dreams as a type of technology in and of themselves. In other words, dreams are tools. What do we mean by this? A tool has to be good for something. So what are dreams good for? Dreams can be the tool we use to make sure that we're happening to things. What does that mean? We can use dreams to organize ourselves and others. So are you happening to the future, or is the future happening to you? Are you happening to the world, or is the world happening to you? Are you happening to artificial intelligence research, or is that happening to you? Oftentimes, in the world, it feels like, because it's true, things are happening, and just everything's crashing on us, and the world's happening to us. But if we think about dreams as tools, we can use these sorts of approaches to make sure we're happening to the world. We're happening to the future we wish for. Is bioengineering happening to you, or are you happening to bioengineering? So if you want to determine your answer to that question, as opposed to just let whatever happen happens, maybe you'll find this next little section interesting. Now, dreams come. I'm not going to make this too complicated. Dreams come in a couple different flavors. The easiest to understand is the nightmare or the negative dream. It's horrible. A lot of times when we use dreams as tools, we use negative dreams because it's easier to get attention by shouting about the bad thing, the boy who cried wolf. Even though it's easier to get attention and to get people to react, the problem with the negative dream is if enough people don't believe the bad thing's real, you won't get anything to happen. Stated differently, you have to get enough people believing that the bad thing is real before you get enough action. That's going to sound really strange, but what if we've been living in a negative dream about climate change for longer than we can remember, and because it's a negative dream and not everyone believes climate change is real, it's making climate emergency inevitable. It's like a double nightmare. It's like we have a bad dream about the future, and then because of that, the bad future's even more likely to happen. Let's see if the data supports this way of thinking about it. We'll go back in time, 110 years ago or so, 120 years ago. You can find in the newspapers articles about how burning coal will eventually cause the earth to boil all the oceans because it's going to become so hot. Or in popular mechanics, it's just a couple centuries, going to get way too hot. All right, I guess we knew that, this bad future, this bad story about the future, but we didn't do anything about it yet. Fast forward, 1989, 2006, Vice President Gore is very concerned about climate change, making an incredible slide deck, and then a documentary, An Inconvenient Truth, and you can see right there in the subtitle, a global warning. He's telling a story about the future based on his understanding of what's happening, and the future isn't going to be good, and he's taking a negative narrative approach to spur us into collective action. Did it work? Not obvious. Maybe not enough people believed that it's real. How about we fast forward to this decade? Here's a great book, Speed and Scale, a global action plan for solving our climate crisis now. See that? Our climate crisis, the negative thing is starting to become real, and because enough people are starting to believe, look at all these other names on this book, Bill Gates, Jeffrey, Christina, wow. Because enough people are now believing the negative thing is real, maybe we can get to collective action. Here at Stanford, we've seen that. John, the author of that book, and his wife helped underwrite a new school at Stanford, the School of Sustainability. Amazing, right? Maybe just in time. Language is so curious to me. What's interesting about the School of Sustainability is if you turn it into an acronym, what do you get? SOS. That's the signal that is broadcast when a ship is sinking. Save our souls. We're going down. So see how over 100 years by telling a negative story about the future of climate, eventually we're getting to the emergency becoming real, and now we've got the SOS signal being broadcast. Here's the good news if you're interested in bioengineering. If you ever happen to be on a ship that's sinking, I would encourage you to put on a life jacket and go to lifeboats. Life jackets, lifeboats, life. Oh, that's biology. That's the living stuff. That's bioengineering, baby. Now, enough about negative dreams. Let's talk about positive dreams. Positive dreams, if you can pull it off, have a chance of enabling collective action in advance of reality. Going to the moon is an example of a collective dream. Martin Luther King, I have a dream that's a positive, aspirational dream in advance of reality. It lets people work together before the hard work of making something really fabulous gets all figured out. It's harder to do, maybe. It's funny to think about, and the counter examples we were just giving. Instead of climate change, making climate crisis, making climate emergency, could you reframe that and say, wow, hey, everybody, we've got a climate opportunity. There is so much carbon in the atmosphere. What can we do with all this carbon in the atmosphere? Gosh, if we have a climate opportunity, I have a dream. It's called Climate Awesome. Let's all work together to make climate awesome. Because I bet each of you has grown up in a world that doesn't use this language at all and just talks about climate change and climate emergency and climate crisis, I hope these words, when flipped around, feel a little bit strange. That should be a clue to you that there's a choice to make in terms of how you architect a dream. I want you to think about this question, too, and then we'll move back to bioengineering. Is it harder to articulate a positive dream? Is it harder to make it real? If you want a clue about this, go back and read the history about the I have a dream speech that Dr. King gave and see if you can track down the link in the bottom of this photograph here of Mahalia Jackson and her role in contributing to the speech as it was presented that day. Incredible story. I'll let you follow up on as you like. Now let's bring it back to bioengineering. What are our positive dreams of and with biology? If you've got nothing to say to this question, no problem. Maybe you're going to do something else besides bioengineering. But if this question resonates with you at all, or if you care about the answer, then maybe that's a clue that you have something to contribute to bioengineering in the future as manifesting via bioengineering. I love this photograph of a boy. Looks like he's fishing on a creek somewhere in India, in part because not just of the boy and what he's doing, but because of what's behind the boy. It looks like a suspension bridge, but this suspension bridge is not made out of concrete and steel. This is made out of the roots of a rubber tree and is so incredibly interesting to me because it doesn't emit carbon as the concrete is curing. It actually fixes carbon and it gets stronger over time and it could be passed down from one generation to the next. It's a totally different way of building. It's a way of building called growing. What if biology was the ultimate way of manufacturing because it was nature's way of manufacturing via growing? We'll come back to that in another lecture. Do you have a positive dream of and with biology? What I can offer you really quickly is some facts. We know biology is all over the planet. It's in most places. We can quantify how much energy it captures from the sun via photosynthesis. The answer is 90 terawatts. A terawatt is 10 to the 12th watts. What's 90 terawatts? You should be asking. All of human civilization today is running on about 20 terawatts, so you know that 90 is four and a half times bigger than 20. Stated differently, if you're understanding what that means, in nature itself, there is an energy harvesting capacity sufficient to make things at about four and a half times as much as all of humanity is running on. It's like, whoa, whoa, whoa. There's a clue there. I have a dream. We should be able to flourish.