We're going to explore a question. What makes living matter unique? Unique compared to what should be your next question. Well, how about rocks? What makes living matter unique compared to rocks? Rocks we know we find it all over the place. We can get good at working with rocks. We can pile up rocks to make a dam or a wall. Heck, we can even standardize rocks, make regular rocks. And if we make regular rocks, they look like blocks and we can stack them up and make this aqueduct like the one found in Segovia, Spain, almost 2000 years old. We can get even better at working with these rocky materials and grind up rocks and make synthetic artificial rock or concrete. And next thing you know, you have a viaduct like the one found in France. So what makes living matter unique compared to these types of materials or the types of materials you might find in a mobile phone? That's what this class is about. From a bioengineer's perspective, what makes living matter unique? And I'm going to offer five aspects for you to learn about and explore. The first three have to do with life as we observe it on the planet. It's most places, it's local evolved. We'll lift the lid on these three. The fourth has to do with the physics of living matter from the inside out. How does it behave in ways that are different from rocks and computers and other things that you see in engineering as a type of material? And then the fifth has to do with our time. You could be a bioengineer in the 10th century or the 15th century, but good luck with that. Thankfully, we're bioengineers in the 21st century, and that's because we have tools in the 21st century that are making bioengineering really unique in terms of how the tools relate to the material or matter we're working with. So let's take the first three and then go from there. We know our planet, it's full of life, covered with life. What does that mean though? You know, growing up, maybe you heard about biomes. Different places on earth that have different ecologies, different constellations or relationships among living systems. It's sort of taken for granted, but the main thing to remember is that life's all over the place. Now, what does that mean for a bioengineer? If our substrate for engineering is living matter and life's all over the place, then we can say, well, everywhere there's biology, there could be bioengineering. And the asterisk is there for the obvious, could doesn't mean should, but, oh, whoa, this is pretty interesting. Everywhere there's biology, there could be bioengineering. Think about how that's not even, most people have cell phones, but not everybody has a cell phone. So like biology is really embedded in all over the place in a way that's very intriguing. We know about these biomes, but let's keep pushing it. Like what are the limits of where life lives? Here's a tar lake in Trinidad, I think, you know, like literally a lake of tar. The tar is full of bacteria. What about radioactive environments? Can you get biology there? Yep. I'll give you an example of that in a minute. What about boiling water? Hot springs? Absolutely. Lots of biology and life lives in hot springs. How about, you know, a super salty environment? The Dead Sea. It's called the Dead Sea. There shouldn't be life in it. Wrong. There's life in the Dead Sea, organisms that can manage in high salt environments. In snowy places, buried in the glaciers, yep, you'll find bacteria, other things, sometimes worms. Deep in the earth, miles underground, there's life. How about on a spaceship? Did you know that scientists with the European Space Agency put simple animals on the outside of a spacecraft and they survived? These are called tardigrades or water bears. They're not super big. They're only a millimeter or so. They normally eat mosses and stuff like that, but they're very resistant to radiation. They're very resistant to drying out. They could survive on the outside of a spacecraft, not inside, on the outside of a spacecraft. We could do bioengineering on the outside of a spacecraft. What is it going to mean when we can bioengineer a creature like this, the tardigrade? Should we be doing that? Another question. So I mentioned radiation. Let's just dig into that a little bit. One way of keeping food safe is to irradiate it to get rid of the microorganisms that might otherwise spoil the food. And oftentimes that can be a good thing to do. It turns out that there's an organism that was discovered in the 20th century in 1956 by Arthur Anderson in Oregon. They were radiating tins of meat. Yet the tins of meat were spoiling after they had been sterilized by radiation because they weren't totally sterilized. Instead, the spoilage would lead to some macroscopic signal that there was a bacterial infection in the tin of meat. This organism so identified is called Deinococcus radiodurans, or D. radiodurans. It's very interesting because it can survive a hundred times or a thousand times more radiation than most other organisms. Even though its DNA is damaged, it can repair that DNA damage. It's a funny organism for microbiologists to think about. I was reading a paper and somebody called it Conan the bacteria because it's incredibly resilient and powerful in terms of surviving radiation. But who knew, right? Like even in an environment with a lot of radiation, you could have a life form. Also when we're thinking about biology being everywhere, we have to appreciate that it's moving oftentimes and causing movement in interesting ways. Could you imagine a plant pathogen that might help to nucleate raindrops or hailstones and move around through the water cycle? Well, wouldn't you know, there's a microbe called Pseudomonas syringae. And here is a micrograph looking at it on the surface of a leaf. You see the opening in the leaf there where materials are exchanged with the environment. This microbe can help with the formation of water droplets and frost, it's thought. And by helping to create ice crystals and other things, it can create damage in the leaf surface, maybe get in a little bit easier and create a localized infection in the leaf. If the leaf falls apart and deteriorates, then you'll get dust and the wind will pick it up and it'll be blown around and maybe go back through the clouds and rain down somewhere else and so on. So not only is life everywhere, but oftentimes the life in nature that's everywhere is moving naturally all over the place. All of this provides potential or opportunity for bioengineering. It's very, you know, it's like, imagine if the computers were just raining from the sky. What do we do with that? In biology, we see things like that. Next topic. Look at this photo of the leaves or wherever you are, like, please go look at a leaf, go look at a tree, go look at a bush. And I want you to ask the question, where are the leaves coming from? Do they come from a factory somewhere where leaves are made in large quantities and packed in cardboard boxes and shipped to where the tree is you're looking at? And then somebody staples or tapes the leaves to the twigs and branches? No, I guess not. Instead, what we see is that the leaves on the tree come from the tree. The tree grows the leaves from the energy, the photons that arrive from the sun, and the molecules, the carbon dioxide from the air, the water from the soil through the roots and other nutrients through the roots. Biology is building with the materials and energy that's where the biology is. This is very complementary, or you could say the opposite of an industrialized factory, a centralized manufacturing process followed by logistics and transportation. Stated differently, and I really want you to remember this next turn of phrase. Biology teaches us that all atoms are local. It's the ultimate distributed manufacturing platform as a complement to centralized industrialized factory-based manufacturing. Let's just contrast this. Since we're looking at leaves, let's look at something else that harnesses energy from the sun. This is a photograph in the California Central Valley of a photovoltaic farm. These are all solar panels. Some of these solar panels actually supply the electricity to the Stanford campus. Where do solar panels come from? Did they grow in the fields where they're now deployed? Uh-uh. They were made in a factory that makes lots of solar panels, and then they were shipped here and then deployed, and now we get electricity from them. How does that work? What does that involve? You can look at the elemental components of a solar panel, and there's silicon, okay, that's abundant. Let's look at the silver. The silver going into solar panels is accounting for about 10% of all the use of silver on earth today. Where do we get silver from? Did the silver come from the fields where the panels are deployed? No, silver comes from mines, most notably in Mexico and Peru. You can see here at a nation-state level, where are the countries on earth that are mining silver, and then obviously that silver would have to go to the panel factory, and then the panel would have to be made, and then it'd have to be shipped to California and installed. All of that is obviously very different from a leaf growing on a tree, where the photon comes to the tree, and the carbon dioxide comes to the tree. Look at it differently. A leaf is a self-assembling solar panel that grows itself and recycles itself, very, very different. What makes living matter unique? All atoms are local. Biology grows with the stuff that's local. Next, biology's evolved, and we're going to have to deal with that, so let's look at something that's not evolved like biology, a bicycle. Here's a diagram of a bicycle. I guess if you looked at a bicycle and you had a diagram like this, you could determine what absolutely every part in that bicycle is. You could learn about it. You could look at an owner's manual, a repair manual. Anything about that bicycle, we're going to be able to figure out what it is because heck, we made it, and you could learn how to take it apart and put it back together, and maybe you made a custom bicycle. In engineering, we're working with systems usually that we fully understand in an operational sense. We know what all the components are. We know we designed the system to be understandable and repairable, hopefully. That's what you would normally expect in engineering, but in biology and bioengineering with living matter, none of this is true. We are inheriting billions of years of evolved systems, and they work amazingly well, and we don't understand completely how they work. Here's a favorite example. On the left is a photograph of a mycoplasma, a simple bacterium that has the smallest number of parts needed for a life form on earth, about 500, 450 genes or parts, if you will. On the right is a representation of this where all the molecules are carefully represented based on what we understand about them. At first blush, you might go, yeah, this looks like the bicycle and the parts list. It's not that different in its motivation, but there's a profound difference, which is we don't know what all the parts do. The best studied versions of these microbes that have literally been completely read out and actually resynthesized, their entire genomes resynthesized, there's still about 70 or 80 of the 450 parts that are absolutely essential for life. All of these parts are essential for life, but 70 or 80 of them, nobody on earth knows what they do. There's no manual. There's no repair kit. We know a lot, but it's not like a bicycle. Because of that remaining mystery, when we try and be a bioengineer today, it's what I would call Edisonian. We haven't made the light bulb yet, and so you just got to tinker and test, tinker and test. This underlying ignorance, until we resolve it, is going to make bioengineering workflows research intensive to a large degree. That makes living matter unique. We've inherited these objects. It's almost like imagine if aliens appeared and they were millions of years more technically advanced or billions of years more technically advanced than us, and we inherited all their technology and it was like, how does this work? We're figuring it out. Well, it's not aliens. Actually, life on earth is billions of years more advanced than our understanding of it as bioengineers today, and we're quickly filling in that understanding, but we have a lot still to catch up and we haven't gotten the basics fully worked out yet. Let's go into the fourth category, physics of living matter, and although I'm showing this macroscopic image, I want to focus our attention on the microscopic, from the atoms to the molecules to the cells, and I'm mostly wanting to contrast this, again, to other types of material like dope silicon semiconductors or rocks or steel high beams and so on. In all those other systems, the matter mostly stays put. The transistors on a computer chip aren't running around the computer chip. We'll quickly see that biology is very different from that. We can be very technical. First we can say that because living systems are comprised of atoms making molecules making cells, there's going to be what we refer to as thermal noise or random motion of molecules at the lowest scale, and that's going to cause the systems to mix themselves. Instead of transistors fixed on a computer chip and not moving around in relation to each other, the molecules comprising a cell are literally going to be spontaneously moving relative to each other and mixing themselves up all the time for free, so to speak, whether we like it or not. That's a totally different substrate to be an engineer within. The next aspect I want to focus attention on, again, just introducing, we'll have a lot more to say about it, but just introducing it to you, is obviously living, I'll say it obviously, but again, we're going to slow it down. Living systems can reproduce. They're reproducing machines. We know this when we see, you know, parent to child of any type of creature, but I don't know of another engineering domain where things routinely directly make copies, like your car is not going to make a baby car, right? The computer is not making a baby computer, right? But a yeast cell is going to make, a mother yeast cell make a daughter yeast cell routinely, right? So somehow the molecules comprising life are capable of not only carrying out their functions in the moment, but they're actually capable of making an entire copy of themselves. And because of that, we'll see a tremendous diversity of molecular functions, what I call high molecular heterogeneity. Instead of having a billion transistors that are functionally all the same, a cell might have a billion molecules, but each molecule might be doing something slightly different. And so that means the complexity of function that gets integrated into the biosystems is very intriguing, very intimidating. And it's derived, I think, from this requirement of living systems needing to be able to reproduce. Let's take a look at this with a more accessible example, not just words, let me show you an example of the first two things and a little bit of the fourth. This is a computer simulation of cytoplasm. Cytoplasm is the inside of a cell where molecules are moving about spontaneously and they interact with each other and sometimes cause or undergo chemical reactions. And those become the living processes that make a life form. And what's shown on this movie, which is about 13, 14 years old, is just a section of cytoplasm and the different colored objects are biomolecules, mostly proteins, a little bit of RNA in here. And this movement that you're looking at is slowed down relative to what's actually happening in a real live living system. How slowed down is it? Well, in a real live living system, the average time, like a bacterium, the average time between when two molecules collide with each other, let's just ballpark it and say it's a nanosecond or a billionth of a second. And so just take a look at this movie and see how long it takes for that yellow molecule over there, that green molecule over there to hit a different molecule. And once you get a sense of that timescale, think of that as a nanosecond or a billionth of a second. Right. So this movie is probably slowed down at least a trillion fold, probably actually a little bit more than that. So a real living system, the molecules are moving at least a trillion times faster than what's shown on this movie. Why are they moving? There's things that are not shown in this simulation, which are the water molecules that are moving and vibrating and bumping into these bigger molecules, the biomolecules and causing them to move, so-called Brownian motion. Whoa, this is again, I don't know how many times they need to say it. This is not what the computer chip looks like inside your computer, right? Like those things in the chip aren't moving around like this. And if you give this enough time, although it looks like the molecules are mostly staying in one spot locally, they can actually move all the way around. You know, it might take an average size molecule in a bacterium about a second to go from one end of the bacterium to the other, just because of this random thermal motion.