Welcome to the second week of Introduction to Bioengineering. This week we're going to talk about innovations in medicine. We're going to talk about how bioengineers can help develop new medicines and can scale the production of medicines in order to ensure that there's enough for everyone. There are four learning objectives for this week. The first is just to understand the process by which new medicines are developed. We want you to think like a bioengineer and to see if you can think of ways of developing new medicines by telling you about the process. Then we want you to describe the difference between categories of medicines. This week we're going to talk about small molecule-based medicines, protein-based medicines, and whole cell medicines. We want you to understand the difference between these medicines and the ways that bioengineers can help create new medicines of all three types. We also want you to understand the importance of protein structure in how well a protein-based medicine functions, and then to understand the tools available for measuring and predicting protein structure. Before we get into this week, I want to pose a simple question. What is a medicine? Maybe when I ask this question, you think of things like this. These are examples of drugs that you can get at the pharmacy or via prescription from your doctor. The Food and Drug Administration has a specific definition of a drug, which I'd like to go over so that we can all be on the same page as we enter this week. The Food and Drug Administration defines a medicine as a substance that's intended to be used for the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease. It's something that you need to take in order to feel better or diagnose a disease. It's not a food and it's not a device. All other things can fall into the category of a medicine. Not a food, not a device. We're going to discuss three categories of medicine this week. Like I said, those are small molecule drugs. These are molecules that can enter cells very easily because they're very small or they have a low molecular weight. These molecules typically affect the function of proteins within a cell, and that is how they cause changes that treat disease. There are also protein-based medicines. These protein-based drugs are either of naturally occurring proteins or ones that have been modified. The proteins are administered to people in order to help treat disease. Lastly, the whole cell medicines are living cells that are administered to people to treat disease. Sometimes these cells are engineered in order to perform a specific function within the body, and sometimes they're just naturally occurring organisms that we don't have enough of within us at any given time. Think like probiotics, but to treat disease. Okay, so the three steps to developing new medicines that I want us to focus on are identifying potential medicines, so that's the first step in the development of something new, testing to see whether or not these medicines work, and then scaling up production. Our goal for the week is to think about how you might improve or accelerate each step, so I want you to be thinking where throughout the week I want you to be thinking like where can I look for new medicines? How do I know if this new thing that I've identified is working? Is it actually helping to cure someone's disease? How can I make enough of a medicine once I know it works? To sort of frame this discussion, we're going to have three different case studies. We're going to talk about syphilis, malaria, and diabetes and the drugs that are available to treat each of these diseases. We're going to go back in history and see when the first treatments for these diseases were developed, and as we go through this, I want you to pay attention to what observations people made in order to come up with a new treatment idea, so somebody had maybe a friend who had syphilis and they're like, what do I do to treat this person? Well, they observed something around them that led to a hypothesis about what they could use to treat their friend, and so I want you to keep track of what the observations are that led to new treatments. I also want you to pay attention to the methods that were used to figure out if the new medicine worked, right? It's one thing to have an idea for how to treat a disease and another for it to actually be functional, so how do we know if the medicines work and then how is production of the medicine scaled up to treat everyone in need? Those are the three steps in developing medicines explained slightly differently, and so I want you to pay attention to all three of these things as we go through the week. I'm excited to talk to you about syphilis, malaria, diabetes, and protein-based drugs, so hopefully this week is an exciting module for both you and me. All right, bye.