Today, we're gonna talk about the discovery of drugs to treat syphilis and malaria. And as we go through this lecture, what I want you to do is practice thinking like a bioengineer that's trying to develop a new medicine. I want you to observe how other people have done it in the past. As we go through these stories, think about how people identify new potential medicines, how they test to see if those medicines work, and then how they scale up production. Because these are each of the areas where bioengineering is really having an impact on new medicine development. So after we talk about how it's been done in the past, we'll talk about all of the new things that bioengineers are doing to accelerate each of these steps in medicine development. Before we get to the medicines, we're going to talk about the diseases. I wanna introduce you to malaria and syphilis. Hopefully, they're not super familiar to you yet, but malaria is a very common disease, actually, so maybe it is. Malaria is transmitted from person to person by mosquitoes, and when it is infecting you, it causes fever and chills, abdominal pain, chest pain, headache, nausea, and vomiting. And it's still really prevalent. So this is just a map of malaria infections globally in 2019. And you can see that there are areas where there's more than 400, almost half of the people have been infected with malaria. And that's just in one year. Now, in 2020, globally, that looked like 240 million cases of malaria and 627,000 deaths. So this is a very serious disease. And it's caused by a parasite. So malaria is caused by a parasite called Plasmodium falciparum, and that parasite lives for part of its life inside human red blood cells. So here we're seeing red blood cells. Those are these kind of big, light purple balls. And inside of them, or at least some of them, are malaria parasites, these darker purple stains. Now, living inside of a red blood cell is just one stage of the malaria life cycle, but it is the stage that causes symptoms. So here's the full life cycle. Like I mentioned before, malaria is transmitted from person to person by mosquitoes. So when a mosquito bites you, it pushes the person's parasite into the person's bloodstream, not on purpose, but just because the process of biting pushes some material from the mosquito into the person before they start sucking up blood. Okay, so once those parasites are in your bloodstream, they'll find their way to your liver, and there they'll get into liver cells and make copies of themselves. And then they'll butt off into vesicles and those vesicles will enable the infection of red blood cells. And like I said before, it's at this point when the malaria parasite is infecting your red blood cells that you start to have symptoms. And then eventually the red blood cells will burst and you'll get parasite in your blood that can be sucked up by a new mosquito and delivered to another person. There's an important aspect of malaria or Plasmodium falciparum's life cycle that occurs inside of the mosquito. I'm not gonna talk about it today, but I encourage you to look it up. It's really fascinating. Okay, so this is malaria. It's caused by that parasite Plasmodium falciparum. Syphilis is a sexually transmitted disease. It's caused by a bacteria and its symptoms occur in three stages. In the first stage, which occurs three to 90 days after exposure, you get a sore. That sore appears either in your mouth or on your genitals, but it's not painful. Eventually the sore heals and about four to 10 weeks later, you get a rash. And that's a full body rash. And for some people, the syphilis infection stops there. They never have another symptom and they live the rest of their life normally. But for other people, about three to 15 years after the initial infection, their syphilis disease reappears. And this time it's much more severe. Stage three syphilis affects your internal organs. It's actually lethal. It causes dementia and other psychotic disorders. It will cause internal bleeding, like I said, damage to your internal organs and respiratory failure. Here's actually a photo of a skull from somebody who had syphilis. And you can see the degeneration, the holes within it that are caused by the disease. Now syphilis is caused by a bacteria called trepanoma. It's not infecting red blood cells. It actually doesn't live inside of your cells at all, but it is what causes syphilis. So I wanna ask you, after hearing about these two diseases, how would you cure them? What would you do to treat somebody who has malaria and syphilis? What would you do if it were the 1800s? Imagine there are no antibiotics. We don't know about bacteria. We don't know about plasmodium. We really don't know what's causing these diseases, but we know that people are getting sick. We know that they're dying. What would you do to try to cure these diseases? Take a minute to brainstorm. Maybe you're lost. Maybe you have an idea. Either of those are okay, but check in. See how you're thinking about this problem. All right, now what actually happened? Well, a cure for syphilis started with an observation. We're gonna talk about the cure for syphilis first, and then we'll get to cure for malaria. This observation was made at a mental hospital. He said syphilis can cause neurodegeneration, and so a lot of patients with stage three syphilis would end up in mental hospitals. And a doctor at the mental hospital noticed that syphilitic patients occasionally were cured by what he called febrile episodes. These are fevers. And so he thought to himself, maybe a fever can cure syphilis. Didn't know why that would work, but he thought it was an idea worth testing. The challenge became, if a fever can cure syphilis, how can you induce a fever? This question of how could you induce a fever is not an easy one to answer. People tried wrapping people up in blankets. They tried doing all sorts of physical things to raise their temperature. What worked really well was actually infecting patients with malaria. So you'll remember malaria induces a high fever. It's one of the symptoms of having plasmodium falciparum in your blood. And so this doctor, Dr. Wagner-Jorig, the one who made that observation in the psychiatric hospital, tested plasmodium falciparum as a treatment for syphilis. He extracted malaria parasites from a patient who currently had malaria and then infected a stage three syphilitic patient with that malaria parasite, with plasmodium falciparum. And this is risky, right? Like, what if you're wrong? What if the fever isn't strong enough to kill syphilis? What if it wasn't actually the fever at all that was causing patients in the mental hospital to recover from syphilis on occasion? But Dr. Wagner-Jorig got lucky, or rather he knew what he was doing and it worked. He won a Nobel Prize for this work, actually, for discovering the therapeutic value of malaria in the treatment of what, in this case, they're calling dementia paralytica, but is actually syphilis. So just to be really explicit about it, the treatment that Dr. Wagner-Jorig prescribed or started using to treat syphilitic patients looked like this. So if you had stage three syphilis, it's important to note here that he was only treating stage three syphilitic patients. Right, at stage two, you just have a body rash, the disease is not that lethal, and it's possible that you'll never develop stage three. But once you start showing stage three symptoms, it's pretty bad. So he would infect the stage three syphilitic patients with malaria in order to try to cure them and wait for the malaria parasite to induce a fever in person. After the fever, hopefully their syphilis, the bacteria that causes that was dead, but the malaria parasite would still be very much alive within the person. And so the only reason why this was a viable treatment approach was because a cure for malaria already existed. There was something called quinine that was being used in order to treat malaria. And so once the patients spiked a fever that cured them of syphilis, he would administer quinine and cure the patient's malaria too. Okay, so here's just a slide saying that explicitly, this P. falciparum, plasmodium falciparum treatment only works if you can cure the malaria that it causes. Otherwise, you're just swapping one disease for another. You're trading syphilis for malaria, which isn't really better. Okay, so that begs the question, how did a cure for malaria get found? Malaria had been around for quite a long time and like the cure for syphilis, a cure for malaria started with an observation. The Kachua people who were living in what is presently Peru were using bark from a cinchona tree, a certain type of tree in order to treat fevers. And this was noticed by a Jesuit colonist who had come over from Italy or Spain and realized that there were, or come over from Spain where there was a lot of malaria and thought, hey, if this cinchona tree bark can be used to treat fevers, maybe it can be used to treat that fever that's going around in Spain. And so he sent a sample of the cinchona tree bark back to Spain. And then for 300 years, cinchona bark is shipped from Peru to Europe to treat malaria. It worked, I should say. And no one really knew why it was that this bark was able to cure people with malaria. They just knew that it worked. And so they have the Kachua people to thank for the cure to malaria. Okay, so notice that it's 1630 when this Jesuit apothecary first sends cinchona tree bark to Europe and that it took until 1820 to isolate quinine as the active component of bark. People didn't know for a really long time what it was about the bark that was making it a useful malaria treatment, but eventually they figured out that it contained a lot of this molecule called quinine. Once the population in Europe grew and there was more demand for quinine, more cinchona plantations were planted. And this time they were planted not in Peru, but in Indonesia, which also had a hospitable climate for this tree. So, you know, for 300 years, Peru is the source of all of this bark. And then from 1910 to around 1944, this bark is being supplied from a plantation in Indonesia. Okay, in 1944, World War, or sorry, in 1939, excuse me, World War II breaks out and the allied nations are cut off from their supply of cinchona bark. And this is a problem because of a lot of fighting and a lot of fighting in World War II was happening in malaria heavy regions and regions where there was a lot of parasite and a lot of potential for soldiers to contract malaria. But when they're cut off from this, the plantations when they're cut off from the source of this bark, they have no treatment options for malaria. So this war sparks a massive hunt for cinchona bark alternatives. People are trying really hard to synthesize quinine in the lab so that they don't need to get it from the bark of this tree, but they have no idea how to put this molecule together. And so they start doing a lot of synthetic chemistry to figure out if they can get this molecule made in the lab. But they also start screening other alternatives. So they have libraries of chemicals that serve as dyes for like the clothing industry and other textiles. And they think, okay, well, we have all of these compounds. We have all of these molecules. Maybe one of them is also effective against malaria. So scientists start digging out every chemical they can think of. They go through these large libraries to see, do we have something on hand that can treat malaria? And what they find, oh, sorry, when they're doing this screening, they're actually testing for efficacy against malaria in birds. Turns out birds can get a form of malaria that's very similar to the form that affects humans. And so you can see whether a potential treatment for humans might work by giving malaria-infected birds whatever compound you think might function well as a medicine. Okay, so they're testing all these different dye compounds. They're trying to modify the compounds that they have in order to make new potential medicines. And what they end up with is something called chloroquine. Chloroquine is a synthetic alternative to quinine and it becomes the dominant anti-malaria medicine, not just during the war, but actually for quite a while after. And that's in part because of resistance to quinine and in part because of the ease of synthesizing chloroquine relative to the extraction of quinine from cinchona tree bark. Okay, but eventually the malaria parasites, Plasmodium falciparum, start becoming resistant to quinine. And this is sort of similar to what's happening now with antibiotics. We see that there are bacteria that are resistant to our first line antibiotics, like penicillin, things that we would usually administer at the first sign of infection don't work on bacteria. They're starting to evolve. And so the malaria parasites at this time, starting around the 1950s, but really accelerating through the later half of the 1900s, we start to see a rise in chloroquine resistant malaria. And so this is a problem. If chloroquine is your method of choice for curing malaria and chloroquine doesn't work on an increasingly large fraction of the parasites that cause malaria, then you need to find a new treatment. And one of the places where this was very important was in China, where there was a large population of chloroquine resistant Plasmodium falciparum, where there was a lot of malaria that could not be killed with chloroquine. And so the Chinese government instructs scientists to start to hunt for an alternative to malaria. And by 1969, there are more than 240,000 compounds that have been screened for anti-malarial activity worldwide. And they haven't found stuff that's better than chloroquine and quinine. But this Chinese scientist, Tu Youyou, began screening Chinese herbs, remedies that have been used for a long time in China to treat different ailments, but have not been tested by Western scientists against malaria as a potential treatment. And so she starts screening all of these different herbs. And at this point, we can actually screen for in red blood cells in a dish. So we don't have to, she's not doing experiments with malaria infected birds. Instead, she has samples of red blood cells that are infected with malaria, which she can then treat with these different herbs by kind of grinding them up and adding them to the cells and seeing whether or not this kind of treatment cures the, or kills the parasite, but leaves the red blood cell relatively intact. So through these types of screening, she identifies artemisinin. It's a compound from a shrub called Artemisia annua that kills the malaria parasite faster and in all life cycle stages. So that's really exciting. So once she discovers this through her cell-based screens, they start clinical trials in people and discover that not only does it work well at curing malaria, it has fewer side effects than chloroquine or quinine. And so Tu Youyou gets the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 2015 for this discovery. And that's a very exciting time because we have now a new and even more effective treatment for malaria, which is still a problematic disease worldwide, but it's actually difficult to source large quantities of artemisinin. In this big shrubby plant, artemisinin content is only 0.1 to 1%. So you have to grind up a lot of the plant in order to get enough artemisinin to treat people. And it's not just that, artemisinin crops are exposed to the weather and if there's a bad crop year, then you can have less medicine and it can change the prices of this anti-malarial drug in a way that pushes it out of reach for people who might really need it. So this is an area where bioengineers step in. They see an opportunity to produce this compound, artemisinin.