monomers, in the case of the short acting that's mostly monomers, or hexamers, or you can even get higher order complexes. In this case, the insulin is engineered to have these extra kind of protein tails on them that help stick multiple hexamers together and create something that is even more kind of long lived in the body as a complex, and so it takes longer to break off these pieces, which is why you get the longer and longer acting insulins. So I think that's a really interesting, I think it's an interesting example of us like taking an understanding of a protein structure and then pushing it, right? These long acting ones, that's not a natural protein. It's not just the insulin that you and I produce in our bodies, but it is a modified version of it that has an even different kind of function relative to the kind of standard or naturally occurring human insulin. So a really cool way to engineer some new medicine is just to change the protein structure. Okay, so since structure is so important, then the question becomes, how do we measure it? How do we predict it? If we, you know, at this point, I think you've probably heard about the Human Genome Project. We have been able to sequence humans' DNA. We can identify where there are proteins encoded in the DNA, and because we understand the genetic code, we can know exactly what those protein sequences are, but then we're stuck, right? We know something like the sequence of amino acids that are in a protein, but we don't really know just based on the sequence of amino acids what shape they fold into, and because the shape of the protein is so important for function, we don't know, or it's harder to guess, what the function of all of the human proteins in your genome are. So this desire to figure out from what's called primary sequence the structure of a protein has led to a lot of computational projects where people are trying to predict what the final folded form of the protein looks like. So this is just one approach. We're going to go over a few. I like this example because I think it's kind of easily digestible. Here, we're using what's called a multiple threading alignment and then iterative structure assembly in order to predict the structure of the protein, and so you're taking a string of amino acids, and then you're saying, okay, do I know by alignment to other proteins, by looking at other proteins, that any of these collections of amino acids would form either alpha helices or beta sheets, and if they do, then I'm just going to like stick them all together and try to fold it into something. Maybe, you know, not the most cutting-edge approach that we have to this day, but it's been effective at helping to predict the structure of some proteins. Okay, there is also an approach where you can use free energy minimization to try to fold a protein. Let me see if I can get this to play. All right, so this is a GIF that's just showing you a protein sequence, and it's looping really fast, so it's a little bit hard to see, but a protein, when it is folded correctly, will be in its lowest energy state, right? You can sort of think of it like flopping down on the couch at the end of the day. It's like the place that you are like trying to reach is like the lowest energy structure here, and that, okay, so what they do is they just sample a lot of different conformations for a protein, and then see, all right, which one of these has the lowest energy, because different structures will require more or less energy to maintain. You can think of like kind of gripping something really hard, requiring more energy. Okay, there are now sort of the cutting edge of protein structure prediction is to use a machine learning algorithm to predict a protein's structure, and a machine learning algorithm is basically trained to look at data and recognize patterns, and so you write an algorithm that is trained on a bunch of already known protein sequences and structures, and so you have to have already a large library of proteins whose structures you know because you measure them through something like x-ray crystallography or NMR, maybe another approach in the lab, and then you tell the algorithm like, okay, here are all of these protein structures. Sorry, here are all of these protein sequences. Here are the structures that they fold into, and then the machine learning algorithm gets some time to kind of look at both the sequence and structure and say like, okay, I can see that every time there's an alanine valine valine that like the protein starts to fold like this, right? It can look for patterns in this data, and it has been surprisingly good at predicting the structures of proteins because now you can feed the algorithm protein sequences it's never seen before, and it will fold them into a structure, and when we check to see whether or not they're folded correctly, let's say by doing an experiment, they are quite impressive in how often they are correct, and so this machine learning algorithm that does protein structure prediction, at least the one we're talking about here, is called AlphaFold2. This is the biggest one at the moment in kind of the protein structure prediction world, and I would, oh, okay, so here's a simulation of it folding a protein. You can see it kind of figuring out also what the structure of the protein might look like. It's also sort of an iterative process, kind of like the free energy model we were looking at before. Okay, so today the AlphaFold database has two million structures in it, so I'd encourage you to go to their database and look at some of these proteins. I think it's astounding that they've been able to predict the structure of so many proteins. Last year when I gave this presentation, there were only basically one million structures in their database, so in about a year they have multiplied the number of structures available by 20, which is very big. That's a lot of proteins that we have potential structures for now, and this is just the type of data that you can see. If you go to AlphaFold, you can look, you can type in a protein name. It has suggestions for you if you don't really know where to start, and then it will show you the primary sequence of that protein and then the structure that it's predicted. I can't do it here because it's a screenshot, but you can actually like zoom in and rotate these proteins around, kind of get a really good look at them. Maybe go look at the structure of human insulin. The other thing that AlphaFold will have is how confident the model is that the structure it's predicted is correct, and so what you'll see on this one is that it's pretty sure that most of these amino acids in the middle are forming alpha helices. It's much less sure about this loop out of the end. This kind of disordered part of the protein has maybe an alpha helice in there, but the algorithm just isn't quite sure, so it's kind of interesting to see, you know, what the cutting edge of protein structure prediction is. I encourage you to go check it out if you're feeling really ambitious. You can download AlphaFold and try putting in your own protein sequences. You could make up a totally arbitrary sequence and just see like what would that protein's shape look like if I were ever to make it. I think these are really cool tools, and they can be used to, you know, advance or make advanced medicines like the insulin example I was talking about today, and I think the full impact of them we don't quite know yet what it will be. Anyway, I hope you're excited about proteins and encourage you to check this out.