All right, welcome back. Today, we're gonna talk about the discovery of insulin and protein structure prediction. So insulin is a protein that can be used to treat diabetes. It is gonna be the focus of this lecture because it's actually an incredible bioengineering success story. Insulin is the first medicine that was made using engineered bacteria. These bacteria were given the gene for human insulin and then were able to produce a bunch of this protein in fermenters. And then the protein could be extracted from the mixture of bacteria and sold to people. In fact, recombinant insulin is still the dominant form of insulin available for diabetic patients today. Now, before recombinant insulin was available, insulin was extracted from pig pancreases to treat diabetes. People would literally grind up mountains of pig pancreases in order to get enough insulin to treat everybody who needed it. And whenever I hear this story, I'm both shocked at the mountain of pig pancreases, the volume of these things that people needed to grind up in order to get insulin, and also curious, how do you figure this out? How do you look at somebody who has diabetes and think, I know what you need. You need a pig pancreas extraction in order to regulate your blood sugar. It turns out this story is pretty interesting, and it's also a nice example of an observation leading to a new treatment. So I thought I would share it with you today so you can have yet another example of somebody looking at the world around them, realizing there was an opportunity and developing it into a treatment that in this case has saved millions of lives. Okay, so the observation actually was part of an autopsy or is the results of autopsies in the mid 1800s. While looking at cadavers, people realized that the pancreas was always destroyed or somehow damaged in patients who had diabetes. Now, the reverse wasn't always true. There were some patients who had diabetes whose pancreases looked to be intact, but in general, a damaged pancreas always belonged to a person or if a person had a damaged pancreas, they always had diabetes. So this led people to the hypothesis or the idea that a pancreas was essential for blood sugar management. Diabetes is a disease where your blood sugar is out of control. So the observation led some German physicians in 1890-ish to take the pancreases out of some dogs and just sort of see what happens to them. They thought, okay, if the pancreas really is important for blood sugar regulation, then dogs without pancreases should be like people with diabetes. And this was true, except much more extreme. The dogs, once their pancreases were removed, did exhibit blood sugar regulation symptoms, but they also passed away very, very quickly. But this was enough for people to keep experimenting. This led to a second experiment where dog pancreases were extracted and then ground up and fed back to dogs. And this allowed dogs to survive for, I think on the order of like 70 days. The first dog who got ground up, pancreas did pretty well. And so they thought, oh, there is something in pancreas that is allowing or helping with blood sugar regulation. It's not the whole organ, right? It's not that the thing needs to be in the dog and functional, but it is actually something in that pancreas. It's something maybe that the pancreas is making. They weren't really sure, but they were kind of on the right track for figuring out how to treat diabetes. So they continued to do these types of experiments and were getting extractions of pig pancreases that were purer and purer. On this slide, I'm showing you sort of a brown splotch as the ground up pancreas, because that is indeed what the first descriptions of these things sound like. But over time, the scientists were able to get purer and purer extractions. And I don't mean a long time. They did this experiment with dogs in 1921. By 1922, there was the first trial of this medicine in a person. A 14-year-old named Leonard Thompson had really severe diabetes, and he was the first person to be treated with a pancreatic extraction. One thing to know is that diabetes at this time, especially type 1 diabetes for children, was incredibly lethal. The only way to manage diabetes for these children was through diet, and that meant many of them were very, very skinny and that spikes in blood sugar could be fatal and often were. And so when he was treated, he was in the hospital in very rough shape, but the treatment actually allowed him to survive, which most people did not think he was going to. He also got pretty sick because the pancreatic extraction at this point still wasn't completely pure, and so he had an allergic reaction to it. But he was able to continue to receive basically insulin treatments or pancreatic extraction treatments for a while. And he lived for another 13 years, which is a huge success story. He ended up dying not of diabetes, but of pneumonia. So once this happened, it spurred the scientists and really the world to start thinking about how you could scale up production. Here is a treatment for a disease that previously had no treatment. And so everyone was eager to get their hands on some pancreatic extractions. And one of the clever things that they did was look around and say, well, how do we get a lot of pancreases? Where are there a lot of pancreases? And the answer was the butcher shop, right? People were already slaughtering animals and kind of cutting them up and using them for food. The pancreas wasn't widely consumed. People don't usually eat that organ. And so the scientists were able to get pancreases from butcher shops, and that is how you, and they actually drove up the price of pancreases, interestingly, after butchers realized that they were valuable, they started charging for them, whereas at first they were just giving them away, which is kind of funny. But yeah, so they were able to get a larger volume of pancreases from these butcher shops. And this is where you're gonna start to see those mountains like what I showed you on the previous slide of pancreases accumulating. But it's not just this that led to kind of widespread scale up of insulin production. It's actually something else too. The scientists who figured out how to do some crude extractions of pancreases and that you could give those crude extractions to diabetic patients to treat them got a patent for this process. And as soon as the patent was awarded, they sold it. They sold it for $1 to the University of Toronto. They said that insulin belongs to the world, that it is too important to try to make, too important to treat everybody who needs insulin to quibble over cash. And so they decided not to try to get rich off of this, but instead to sell the patent to the University of Toronto with the agreement that the university would help them scale up production as quickly as possible. And the university was in a unique position to be able to do that at the time. And so I think this is a really lovely example of somebody kind of choosing humanity, choosing to do what is best for everybody instead of just trying to get rich off of an innovation. Okay, so there's the patent. Eventually scientists figure out that the active ingredient in these pig pancreases is a protein. It is a protein that comes in two pieces. Insulin, the protein sequence is shown here. People had started to figure out that proteins were composed of amino acids. And so insulin was actually the first protein to ever be sequenced. Fred Sanger, who is a remarkable person who actually won several Nobel prizes, was the first person to ever sequence a protein to figure out what is the order of amino acids in this proteins. And the protein that he sequenced first was insulin, was showing kind of how important this protein has been to humanity in so many different ways. So here are the two peptides that compose insulin. There's one that's 21 amino acids long and another that's 30 amino acids long. And you can see some disulfide bonds kind of bridging the two chains of the insulin protein. But I don't love this representation of insulin. I mean, it's easy to look at, but it's actually not all that accurate. The protein is not like two little sticks bound together. It actually has a more complicated 3D structure. It's sort of folded back on itself. Even this is not quite right. And I'll show you a structure of insulin that's more accurate in the next slide. But I wanted to give you this idea that there's this three-dimensional structure to the protein that's really important. And the reason that's important is because insulin, as it's floating around in your blood when it's released by the body, will, to help with blood sugar management, will bind to receptors. And those receptors recognize not the sequence of amino acids. It doesn't go through and say, hey, is that a glycine, isoleucine, maline? It doesn't do that type of analysis. It actually just looks for the structure or is activated by a protein with the same structure as insulin. You can think of it sort of like insulin being a puzzle piece, the last puzzle piece, I guess, that's fit into a space, right? So it's a tight, really nice tight fit. So when insulin is bound by its receptor, which is on the surface of the cell, this kind of black double line is supposed to be the surface of a cell, it brings the intracellular parts of the protein together. Those become active and then can signal to the cell, like, hey, you've got a blood sugar problem. You should start to do stuff to regulate it. So this three-dimensional structure of insulin is really important. And it's not just insulin. The 3D structure of many proteins are important. So people have devised several ways of representing a protein structure. This thing that I've been showing you with the little balls, that's actually not all that common. People will use what are called ribbon structures to represent proteins. These came about because they're sort of two big or two structural building blocks. There are ribbons or, sorry, there are helices called alpha helices or beta sheets and certain sequences of proteins will form one or the other. And then these collections of alpha helices and beta sheets like fold even more into the final structure of the protein. So there are ribbon structures. There are also space-filling models. This is another way of looking at the protein. So this is actually also insulin. Everything you're seeing on this slide is insulin. These are just different ways of representing a protein structure, different ways of looking at it. This space-filling model is showing you the location of every atom in the protein. So each of these little balls is supposed to represent a different atom. Okay, so all interesting. If you see, I think, if you see things that look like this, know that those are probably proteins. People are probably trying to represent a protein or show you what the shape of that protein looks like. These things are so small that you can't really see them by eye. In fact, this is what it looks like when you try to experimentally observe a protein structure. This is X-ray crystallography. So it's taking a, so sorry, let me back up. Dorothy Mary Crowfoot Hodgkin is the first scientist to solve the structure of insulin. She used a technique called X-ray crystallography where she took a sample of pure insulin and made it into a crystal. Kind of like you can get salt crystals if you dry them out, right? If you have some salt water and it dries out, you can also get protein crystals and then you can shine X-rays through them. And the very regular structure of the protein when it's in a crystal will cause the X-rays to be, sorry, the X-ray beam to diffract and give you a pattern. And that pattern tells you where in the protein there are atoms that are deflecting the X-ray beam. So you can get a model of exactly where the atoms in a protein are located. And before there were computers that people would build what are called ball and stick models of proteins. They would actually represent the location of each atom as a ball and then they would kind of hold them together with sticks. And it was one way of looking at a structure. And so what you're looking at on this slide are Dorothy and also a ball and stick model of insulin. You'll notice that this ball and stick model looks different than the insulin that I had shown you on the previous slide. And that is because insulin can actually form a hexamer. So there are six copies of the kind of insulin monomer that A and B chain that I was showing you earlier in this hexamer. Each individual insulin protein is shown as a different color in this structure. And so you can see how the six of them all kind of sit together. It's really interesting, right? But why, like, what is this? Why is there this hexamer? Oh, actually, before we talk about why there's a hexamer, I wanna show you that structure prediction and protein sequence revealed a difference between human and pig insulin. We got lucky, actually, that human and pig insulin are very similar. There are only three amino acids that differ between the two proteins. But one of the amino acids that's different between pig insulin and human insulin is on the outer surface of the protein. There's an alanine here in the pig insulin and a threonine here in the human insulin. And the change from threonine to alanine actually affects how well this protein can form that hexameric complex that I was showing you on the previous slide. It doesn't form quite as well with the pig insulin. And that affects kinda how the protein behaves in the body. Okay, we'll get back to that in a little bit. Now, in 1978, recombinant DNA technology made it possible to produce human insulin in E. coli. So this is the big bioengineering advance that I told you about at the beginning. Here, you're basically taking the DNA that encodes for the human insulin gene. So this is exactly the same DNA that's in you and me. And we will put it into a plasmid, which is basically a circular piece of DNA that's maintained inside of a bacterium. The bacteria will replicate this piece of DNA the same way it replicates its own chromosomes when it divides. And so it never really loses these plasmids. By putting the human insulin gene into this piece of DNA, you can then put it into the recombinant bacterium and then put the bacterium into the fermentation tank. And the bacteria will transcribe and then translate this human insulin gene in order to make a bunch of the protein to be harvested from there. So this is sort of the process of engineering a bacterium to produce a recombinant protein. Now, understanding this insulin structure has led to new medicines. As I mentioned before, that alanine versus threonine on the outer surface of pig insulin versus human insulin affects the ability to form this hexameric complex. And that's interesting because this hexameric complex sort of serves as a storage of insulin in the body. So insulin, the protein, isn't functional. It doesn't bind its receptor and tell cells to do anything when it's in its hexameric form. It's only when the monomers break apart that they become able to interact with signaling proteins, with their receptor proteins. And so the fact that the pig insulin can't form this hexamer means that it doesn't store as well. And so more of the insulin that you deliver into a person is going to be what we call rapid acting or short acting. If you are a diabetic or you know anybody who takes insulin, you would know that there are different types of insulin. There are rapid acting insulin, kind of intermediate and long acting insulins as well. And so these are ones that will regulate, like be able to deal with a quick spike in blood sugar or would be able to regulate it over sort of a long period of time, but it takes a while to start acting. And so depending on kind of your particular pathology, you would take different types of insulin. And in these are formulations or different collections of either insulin monomers.