All right, we're gonna continue this week's discussion on bioengineering innovations in medicine by talking about sourcing, screening, and scaling up production of medicines and all the ways that bioengineers can help us do this, do these things better. 

Okay, so first, if you wanna source new medicines, one way that you can do it is to look for new sources of medicines. Now, there are potentially new compounds that could serve as therapeutics all around us, we talked about examples previously that came from plants and then were moved into bacteria, but it's possible that bacteria are making compounds themselves that could be useful as therapeutics. It's also possible that there are things in fungi or in animals or insects that are also going to be able to have some sort of medicinal effect, right? So we can start to do extractions from these different types of organisms to look for new chemicals, and this has been pretty successful in the past at giving us new medicines. 

But one of the things that's challenging about this is that some organisms only make compounds when stimulated correctly, and maybe we can get at more diverse medicines by challenging the organisms. So here, what you're looking at is a leaf that's getting chewed on by some insects, and to stop the insects from chewing on them, this plant will start to produce compounds that change the taste of the leaf to the organisms. And this is only in response to them, so if you were to take an unchewed-on leaf and look for production of that compound, you wouldn't find it. So the question becomes, if there are hidden molecules inside of organisms' genomes, how do we access them? 

Well, one of the things that bioengineers can do is awaken natural product pathways in the lab. One way of doing this is to use, or there's one tool that's really helpful for doing this called an anti-smash tool. This will allow you to feed in a genome sequence from a bacterium, and then anti-smash will look for enzymes encoded in the genome, and then try to predict what kinds of compounds would be made when those enzymes are expressed. So this is one way of looking or predicting what types of things may be made by that bacteria, even if the bacteria isn't currently making them, right? Genes in the genome aren't all being expressed at the same time, but we can predict what would be possible for the bacteria to make by looking at the genes that are encoded in that genome. 

Once you know what's encoded, then you can take those genes and change the promoter and overexpress them. So here we would be taking genes from Colobacter crescentus, a weird or wild bacteria, and then moving them into E. coli, which is much easier to manipulate in the lab, and try to see if genes from Colobacter do in fact produce the compounds of interest. So that's one way of trying to access new molecules is just to take the genes, even if you don't know what they're gonna do at first, and move them into another organism. 

There's been a lot of work done by people on projects like this. It's not always that easy. Sometimes you're missing enzymes in a biosynthetic pathway, and so it doesn't actually make anything new, but we're getting better at predicting which genes are involved in pathways, and then at methods of heterologously expressing them in organisms where the enzymes are most likely to function well. So you could also do some synthetic chemistry to try to get new reactions to occur in the lab. We've gotten pretty good at doing chemical reactions where you change the conditions of two molecules in order to get them to combine or otherwise react in ways that yield new molecules, but you can also use biocatalysts to initiate the generation of new types of molecules. 

So maybe we don't know what conditions would combine two potential chemicals together to produce some new compound or new molecule, but we have a biocatalyst that can catalyze or push forward that reaction. So by exploring what types of bacteria or proteins could be added to chemicals in order to change those chemicals, bioengineers can start to make new molecules. Here's an example of that type of work being done in plants. Your tryptophan, which is an amino acid, an essential amino acid, is made into a compound called brassinin in plants, usually, and these researchers, one at Stanford and one at UC Berkeley, figured out that they could make chlorobrassinin or chloro, or sorry, bromobrassinin by feeding in different types of intermediates to plants and changing the enzyme in them. So they were able to make new compounds that actually now function as, or have functionality as antifungals just by manipulating this pathway that usually appears in plants.

Okay, so that's different ways of sourcing things, but once you've sourced a whole lot of molecules, the question becomes, how do you screen them to make sure that they're functional? Angela Kohler, a professor at MIT, has been pioneering this high-throughput screening method where she is able to test thousands of different compounds all at the same time. She makes these arrays in which you can look for activity of a molecule against a cell really easily. So this is just a video showing you kind of the size scale of the types of chips that she has been able to build. As you zoom in, you'll see, like, here's the small molecules that have been printed there by the robot, and then you can see whether or not they bind to a protein of interest.

In this case, the idea is that binding that protein might interfere with that protein's activity, and if the protein is something that is causing problems in a disease, then by binding it, you would interfere with its activity and treat the disease. So here's one method of trying to scale up screening, right, removing from how many birds can you have in a lab for the malaria example to hundreds of thousands of things on a chip.

Okay, another way that you can test things more efficiently in the lab is to have new model systems for testing. Talked about using, we talked about using birds, and we just talked about using protein-binding assays to see whether or not a drug might be effective, but there sometimes is information lost in those types of assays, and it might be better to be able to test to see whether or not a drug has an effect on a human cell and, you know, in a whole human organ. So one thing that people have tried is taking individual human cells and then changing the conditions in which you grow them in to stimulate them to form miniature versions of human organs.

These miniature versions of human organs look kind of like this. These are two different brain organoids, and so these are supposed to be models of the human brain, but then you can test different types of drugs on or look at cells that are starting from, with different genetic mutations to see how it affects, you know, the structure of the organ. And I think these are pretty cool. You can see sort of the folds here starting to appear like a human brain or eye cups forming on this brain organoid. And so I think it's an exciting way of looking to see whether or not, or an exciting platform that can be used to see whether or not a drug has an impact on cells that are kind of more like their native structure or they're in a situation that's more like their native situation.

Here, just for scale, is an image of actual organoids in a dish. So they're small, but they're still macroscopic, right? You're able to see these tiny organoids with your naked eye. You don't need a microscope or something like that.

Okay, outside of, and while organoids are getting great and they're advancing really quickly in their complexity, and that's useful because the more complex the organ, the more likely it is to represent the whole human organ effectively, but not quite to the point where these tiny organoids are as advanced as the whole brain. And so it's still useful to be able to use animal models for research. There's been some genetic engineering of mice in order to get them to be better models of specific human diseases. So we can knock out specific genes that are homologues of things in people in order to get mice that have ailments, and then we can try to treat them with different modalities. And so here's a mouse model of obesity, a mouse model of tumor, tumor genesis, and then a mouse model even of vitiligo. And so we can start to test to see, you know, kind of how different medicines might work on mouse models that are supposed to be more similar to people.

All right, so those are our ways of testing. When we talk about scale-up of production, we have been talking primarily about moving production of compounds from slow-growing or rare organisms into fast-growing organisms that are easy to grow in large quantities. This is an example from Christina Smolke's lab here at Stanford, where they were able to move the genes that encode for production of an opiate from poppy into yeast. And so there's many genes in this pathway, and it has enabled them to basically brew opiates instead of having to grow the plant and isolate the compounds from there. And so they're exploring other types of drugs that you could also make by changing enzymes in this pathway, and are hopeful that they'll find a solution for pain management at her company that they recently started.

There's also a scale-up or production being done in model plants. So this might be surprising, but it can be useful to move production of a compound of interest from a slow-growing plant into a fast-growing plant. So here we're highlighting the movement of a compound called etoposide, which is usually produced by a slow-growing plant called mayapple, into Nicotiana benthamiana, which is a really rapidly-growing lab plant. So it can be exciting to think about heterologous production, not just in microbial organisms, but also in plants. We'll get a little bit into the benefits of working with plants in a minute, but I just wanted to show you an example where this has been done. Throughout all of these slides, if you want to go back and look later, links to the scientific literature are at the bottom. And so you can read the actual science paper where they engineered Nicotiana benthamiana to produce etoposide. 

Okay, so there are some benefits and some drawbacks to using bacteria or different hosts in order to produce medicinal compounds of interest. E. coli, which is a really commonly-engineered organism, has several benefits and disadvantages. So I just wanted to go through them really quickly so that if you're ever thinking like, hey, I would really like to make a lot of this compound, should I try to move the genes that encode for this compound into E. coli, or should I pick a different organism to try to make my new medicine? So the benefits of working with E. coli is that it grows really fast. It doubles every 20 minutes. That means it divides and makes a copy of itself every 20 minutes and grows exponentially. So you can get a lot of E. coli cells really fast if you put them into kind of warm, high-nutrient conditions. High-cell density cultures are really easily achieved. The E. coli will basically continue to divide and divide and divide until it's very, very dense. You can get up to 10 to the 13 mls of bacteria, or 10 to the 13 bacteria per milliliter of water. So just to put that into perspective, that's 10 followed by 13 zeros in one milliliter, which is a very small amount of liquid. Media for growing bacteria can be made really easily from inexpensive components, so it's easy to get a lot of this bacteria and cheap. And then transformation, or the introduction of new DNA into E. coli is also fast and quite easy. The disadvantages of working with E. coli is that you need to usually give it antibiotics in order to force it to maintain plasmids. 

In the last lecture about plasmids, which are little circular pieces of DNA that exist and are replicated by the E. coli. But E. coli sees this extra piece of DNA as a burden because it has to devote some of its cellular resources to making copies of this plasmid, and so it will kick it out over time unless you supply some sort of selective pressure to make the bacteria keep this plasmid. So in this case, we usually encode for an antibiotic resistance gene on a plasmid and then grow the bacteria with antibiotics in order to force them to keep the piece of DNA that encodes for our genes of interest. That's obviously problematic to have a lot of antibiotic around, and so there are people who work with other methods of selection or methods of integrating genes that encode for your medicines into the genome of E. coli, so you don't need to do this, but typically it's faster and easier to work with plasmids, and so you do have to consider whether you wanna work with antibiotics. You can get improper protein folding in E. coli. It just has different ribosomes than humans and can fold proteins somewhat differently, and so there is a possibility that you'll make a lot of protein, but it won't be quite right for your therapeutic application. Often what happens is it just becomes this unfolded kind of globby mess inside of the E. coli cell. There's a lack of post-translational modifications, which I'll get to in a second. You can also get endotoxin contamination. E. coli is a pathogen and does produce some compounds that are detrimental to human health, so you need to make sure that you purify your medicines really well before you administer them to humans so that you don't have any of these toxins that carry over. Just the sheer fact that that exists means they're a little bit more dangerous to work with in terms of using them to produce medicines than from other hosts, which we'll get to in a minute. And then they do do some proteolytic digestion, which means they may chew up your protein of interest before you're able to extract it in the case of protein therapeutics or before those proteins are able to make whatever small molecule drug you're trying to make. So sometimes that can be a problem. It is protein sequence dependent, so it's not going to be an issue for every protein you try to express in E. coli, but it is something to consider. 

We're going to talk about post-translational modifications now. Protein activity is defined by multiple features. We've already talked about the primary structure, which is just the amino acid sequence of a protein, then folding into what we call secondary structures. These are either alpha helices or beta sheets. Then the protein will fold even more into what's called a tertiary structure or a three-dimensional structure. And then sometimes proteins will bind to each other to form higher order complexes that we call the quaternary structure. So each of these affect the protein activity. You have to form the right structure in order for the protein to be active. But in addition to that, you can also get decorations of the proteins with other molecules. So you can get the addition of methyl groups, like a carbon and some hydrogens. You can get the addition of just hydroxylations, so oxygen and hydrogens, or you can get the addition of whole sugars. This process of adding sugar compounds to proteins is called glycosylation. And each of these modifications can affect the activity of a promoter, or sorry, of a protein. 

Just to put that in perspective or to give you an example, here is the structure of glucocerebrosidase. This is an enzyme that is important for, or sorry, that is sometimes deficient or defective in a disease called Gaucher's disease. And that's a type of fatty acids in liver. You get accumulation of fatty acids in liver. And in this protein structure, you can see the protein itself is being represented by one of these stick models. And then these sugars are in blue. And you can see relative to the protein how big these things are. And hopefully that kind of illustrates for you how important they can be for the protein to serve its function. They're a big part of protein and they're essential for it to function correctly. The reason glycosylation, so bacteria don't do any glycosylation and then glycosylation varies across organisms. So yeast, insects, plants, non-human mammals, and humans all encode different enzymes that attach sugars onto proteins. And so those will result in different glycosylation patterns and therefore it can be difficult to use something like a yeast to make a human protein therapeutic because it's possible that the yeast will add sugars onto the protein that are not the same as the sugars that a human cell would add on. And therefore the proteins coming out of yeast may have different activities than the ones coming out of human cells. 

Okay, so there's actually more than just, E. coli and yeasts and plants that you can express or use to produce medicines. These are some of the most common production hosts. There's E. coli that we already talked about, yeast, you can grow mammalian cell lines. And so these are cells that are isolated from mammals, sometimes humans in order and then grown in the lab. Usually they're isolated from cancer samples so that the cells can continue to grow and divide indefinitely. Cancer is overproliferation or the continued growth of cells that actually shouldn't be growing in your body. But when you take them out of the body, those cells can be useful because they continue to grow and produce a lot of cell material for you to work with. There are also insect cell lines and insect cell lines is the same idea as the mammalian cell lines. It's just the peas are derived from insects. 

So here, what you're looking at are a whole bunch of different pluses and minuses to working with each of these production hosts. So E. coli, like we mentioned, has no glycosylation. And then if you go down this table, you'll see that we sort of colored them by how close to human glycosylation the organism is able to produce. But there are other considerations than just glycosylation patterns, right? The mammalian cell lines can have perfect human glycosylation, but they're harder to genetically modify relative to E. coli and actually the yeast and even insect cell lines. They are relatively slow growing. There's high risk for virus contamination and they're very expensive. The medias that they grow in are much more expensive than the ones that we grow E. coli yeast or even plants in. So I encourage you to spend a little bit of time looking at this table and thinking about like which of these things are gonna be most important to you if you're trying to make a medicine of interest. It let's say you're not trying to work with a, or you're not trying to produce a protein-based therapeutic. Maybe you don't care about the glycosylation state then. And so you can work with either E. coli or yeast. It's just one example of something to consider. Now, these are the benefits and drawbacks of these types of cells or organisms unmodified. The bioengineers have been working on modifying these things in order to improve them, make them better production hosts. So yeast can actually be what's called humanized to enable production of correctly glycosylated proteins. This is how yeast would usually glycosylate proteins, but by knocking out specific enzymes from the yeast genome and then adding enzymes that are usually found in humans, you can change the glycosylation patterns and make them identical or at least much more similar to the human glycosylation patterns. And then these humanized yeast become really good production hosts for protein-based therapeutics that have to be glycosylated. 

Another technology advance is to get high concentrations of proteins out of CHO cells. So CHO stands for Chinese hamster ovary, the type of mammalian cell line that's really easy to work with in terms of bioproduction because it can be grown in fermenters. A lot of human cell lines have to be grown on solid substrates. So you can imagine just like a whole sheet of cells that are growing. That kind of makes sense. Most of the cells in your body are attached to one another and they're happiest when they're got something solid to hold on to. These cells seem to be okay in batch culture and you can up, but they unfortunately are not as good at producing large quantities of protein as things like yeast or E. coli. One of the things that people figured out is that if you treat CHO cells with a drug called methotrexate, a specific region of the genome where a enzyme to deal with methotrexate is encoded will start to amplify itself. The cell will actually just make many more copies of that piece of DNA. And so if the gene to deal with methotrexate is colored red here, you can put your gene of interest here. You can pretend that it's blue gene, as long as it's close enough to the methotrexate induced gene. And you can get lots of copies of your gene of interest too and drive really high expression of your protein of interest. So I think that's exciting. Okay, so I wanted to do a quick shout out to my favorite production host. I am a plant genetic engineer. 

I wanted to take a second to talk about molecular farming. One of the advantages of engineering plants to produce medicinal compounds, which actually is the thing that people do is that it's easy to scale production. So again, this would be the movement of compounds from a really slow growing plant into something that's faster growing or production of protein therapeutics that a plant wouldn't usually make at all. And so you can engineer the plant to produce them and then get a lot of seeds and use all the infrastructure that we currently have in place to farm things to get a large quantity of whatever compound or protein of interest you're trying to make. And the nice thing about this is you don't need really expensive reagents. You don't need really expensive gross medias in order to make a lot of the plant. But you do need to purify your protein or compound of interest out of the plant at the end, which can be time consuming. 

So that was kind of a crash course in all of the cool things that we've been doing in bioengineering to try to up production or sourcing, screening and scaling of medicine. But it is just a crash course. There's so much more. So I encourage you to start looking into all of the different ways that bioengineering is impacting the development of medicine. The papers that I've linked here are really good starts in that direction. But I also encourage you just to think about how medicine development can be innovated on even further. Can you think of new ways to source medicines or screen to see whether or not they're functional or scale production?