The first thing you notice is the particle that's larger is moving more slowly. The trace isn't very long, so it looks like it's going up in this case, mostly, but it's like drifting around, so it might still be random. I'd want to follow it for a longer period of time to see where it ends up and does it go in all directions, but it's being jostled around by the smaller particles and other things that might be invisible. This is a way of thinking about what Brown was observing, those pollen grains moving around. How is this going to be related and more simply organized into what we know today as Brownian motion, Brownian diffusion? The first thing we can draw upon, beyond looking at what's happening at a microscopic level, is to just think about what happens. Imagine you had a perfectly smooth dish of water, and you were able to put a drop of food coloring in the middle of the dish, and it didn't disturb the water at all, and there was no flow in the water. You're just looking over time to see how the dye and the food coloring, what would it do? What would you expect it to do? In my experience, when I've done things like this, there might be a concentrated spot of dye in the middle of the dish right when I add it, but inevitably, for reasons, the dye will spread out over time. That's what's shown in this depiction on the bottom left of this slide. The height of the surface shown in this image is the density of the dye in a two-dimensional solution. As time progresses, the intensity of the dye diminishes as the dye overall spreads out and colors the entire dish. If I wanted to think about that instead of a two-dimensional system, just something on a string or on a line in one dimension, I might have a peak of something that I add at an early time, and that peak spreads out as things diffuse over time. What's interesting here is suddenly, we just went from a microscopic representation of how things are spontaneously moving around to a bulk or aggregate representation, which means when you have many molecules interacting as a system, things behave as an ensemble set of molecules or in bulk. The bulk representations are often not dominated by noisy behavior. Instead, we see this very smooth, almost determined behavior that follows our expectations. Our expectations, again, are derived from empirical observation. I add a drop of food coloring to a dish in perfectly still water, and the dye will diffuse or disseminate and become less intense over time. Diffusing particles, we know from experience, tend to spread out over time. Diffusing particles, particles moving around spontaneously. It turns out mathematics can describe how far molecules move due to this spontaneous Brownian motion named after Mr. Brown. We're going to use some math here, and it might look a little strange at first, but it's not too complicated, so I really encourage you to, if you haven't seen it before, just play with it. It's such beautiful math. There are three equations here. From top to bottom, it represents how far molecules move due to spontaneous random motion in a one-dimensional system at the top, in a two-dimensional system at the bottom, in the middle, excuse me, and a three-dimensional system at the bottom. What do I mean by 1, 2, 3D? Imagine you had a molecule on a strand of DNA or a strand of RNA, and it was sitting there, and it could just randomly go back and forth. How far would it tend to go over time? The equation at the top is going to help us think about that. Instead, let's say I had a membrane on the cell and a molecule sitting inside the membrane or outside the membrane, and it was just randomly searching around the membrane. How far would it tend to go over time? We could use the middle equation, or let's say I have a molecule inside the cell in the middle of cytoplasm. Obviously, it's a three-dimensional space it can explore, and we can use the bottom equation for that. What do the terms mean in these equations? X-squared or R-squared is known as the mean square displacement, the square of the average distance traveled by a particle in one of these systems. The left side of the equations is the square of how far something is going to move on average. The letter D here on the right side of the equation is the diffusion coefficient. It's the oomph. It's like how fast is something going to be moving, we think. T is the elapsed time. To state this in simple English, if I want to know, on average, how far something is likely to travel, I am going to take the diffusion coefficient for the something, for the molecule, and the amount of time I'm willing to let go, the elapsed time, and I multiply those two terms. If I take the square root of the product, following these equations, I'll get the value to X or R, and that'll be my mean square displacement, the average distance traveled by a molecule with that diffusion coefficient and that amount of elapsed time in the system. Let's do an example. Remember green fluorescent protein. It's a protein a couple nanometers across, and it's going to exist in cytoplasm if we have the DNA encoding that protein in the cell and it gets expressed. We can look up the apparent diffusion coefficient, the value of D for this protein in typical bacterial cytoplasm in this case, and to keep it simple, the value of D, the diffusion coefficient, is 7 microns squared per second. If we wanted to ask how far will green fluorescent protein tend to move on average over some period of time, we can take this value of D and decide what system we're working with, like a 1D, 2D, or 3D system, and plug it into the equation. Let's do it for a cytoplasm. We use the 3D equation, and we get the number 6 times the diffusion coefficient of 7 microns squared per second, and let's just ask in a second how far will green fluorescent protein go, and so we just add one second in, and so we're just filling in the bottom equation with our values, and we see that the mean square displacement is 42 microns squared, which is a little bit strange. We want to turn this into just microns, or millionths of a meter, and so we need to take the square root of 42, which is about 6.5 microns. A protein of the size of green fluorescent protein, relatively typical protein in cytoplasm, everything else being equal, for bacteria, at room temperature, maybe body temperature in a second, it'll go about 6.5 microns. That's pretty interesting. Remember the cell, E. coli, is about a micron, so this thing's moving, it's moving around. The fact that molecules are moving spontaneously, because they're being jostled by the underlying invisible movement of the water molecules, is what's going to enable living systems to behave, to be alive, to spontaneously perform, and in the case of the frog embryo, start to undergo development. What's really interesting when you start to adopt this mathematical thinking, is you can ask questions, like, oh, let's say I wanted to go twice as far, how much longer would that take? You'd be like, well, if I want to go twice as far, I need twice as much time. Look at that 3D equation, any of the equations, to get the average distance traveled in units of length, you actually take the square root of the right side, so if you want to go twice as far, you actually have to wait four times as long, because you're going to take the square root of t. So that's one of the powers of moving this thinking into some mathematical representation. Let's unpack the diffusion coefficient, and once we get through this, we're going to pause, catch our breath, but I want to unpack the diffusion coefficient just to give you deeper intuition for what factors are going to influence how molecules are moving around, and so at first blush, you might have never seen this before, it might be intimidating, but it's not too complicated, so let's just play with this diffusion coefficient equation. So D is the diffusion coefficient for a molecule, each molecule could have a different diffusion coefficient, we'll see in this example why there could be differences. The numerator has two terms, the first thing is called the Boltzmann constant, which if you haven't heard about, it's going to be esoteric, the second thing I bet you've heard about is just temperature, temperature of the system, and so right there we can see if temperature goes up, diffusion coefficient is going to go up, because temperature is in the numerator. Boltzmann constant is a constant, and you'll be asked in the p-set to make sure you have a feeling for what it means, but in simple language, the Boltzmann constant takes temperature and lets you relate temperature to the velocity or kinetic energy of molecules, so it's like how fast is something going to be moving, the temperature is the energy of the system, but how does that energy of the system translate to molecular motion, that's what the Boltzmann constant is going to let us do. Okay so we've talked about the numerator, again the Boltzmann constant isn't going to change, the temperature could change, if the temperature changes that's going to impact the diffusion coefficient, in the denominator we have six, okay that's a number, we have pi, that's a constant, another number, then we have viscosity, viscosity is how thick the fluid is, think of syrup for a pancake, it's like really thick, if we have a thick liquid it's going to be harder for molecules to move around, so as viscosity goes up the denominator increases, diffusivity is going to go down, that makes sense, that's viscosity, and then r is the radius of the molecule, you know, like how big is the molecule, and the bigger the molecule, well it's going to be the denominator, so the denominator goes up and diffusion coefficient goes down. It's interesting, the only thing that's specific to the molecule in this example of the diffusion coefficient is the size of the molecule, right, and then the system is defined by the viscosity of the liquid or the solvent, and the temperature of the system, right, so those are the variables, and just to summarize, diffusion follows temperature, meaning if temperature goes up, diffusion goes up, temperature goes down, diffusion goes down, if temperature goes all the way down, right, there's no diffusion, so you're not going to have a living system, so it's going to be static, right, it's going to be frozen, although technically frozen is a little bit, okay, you get the idea, the inverse of viscosity, so viscosity goes up because it's in the denominator again, diffusion is going to go down and vice versa, and diffusion follows also the inverse of molecular radius, the molecule gets bigger, diffusion is going to get slower, you know, a molecule that was four times smaller should diffuse about twice as far, right, because remember when we go to the preceding slide to get the mean square displacement, distance traveled on average, we have to go through a square root, right, so hopefully this gives you, you know, some framework to chew on and think about what's going to impact how fast molecules are moving. I want to recommend to you, if you love reading books, this incredible book, Random Walks in Biology by Howard Berg, and the link here will take you to a website where you can actually find, I believe for free, the chapters of this book, but if you can't get it, let me know and we'll get you the chapters as best we can. It's such a beautiful book about how randomness and spontaneous behavior, bottom-up in biology, manifest as beautiful biological phenomena within living systems. Okay, so now we're going to return to something we're familiar with, this representation of molecules jostling around in cytoplasm, and what I want to ask you to do is just pick a molecule. We're going to let this video loop, right, like let's pick, look at this little red molecule down here. Find the tiniest molecule and just follow it around. Is what we're observing consistent with the framework we've just developed for representing spontaneous diffusion of molecules, Brownian diffusion? I look at a tiny molecule, like this tiny red molecule, it seems to be, what would I expect, it should be moving more quickly relative to the larger molecules, and that looks to be true. Where's a big molecule? Like this molecule over here on the right, it's like a Christmas molecule, it's red and green. It's not moving as quickly. Its diffusion coefficient must be lower. That makes sense. Another thing I want you to think about is whether a molecule, is it only stuck in one neighborhood for sub-region of this, or do the molecules eventually get to go everywhere? And this is trickier to see because at first blush, when I look at this video, it seems like things are really locally constrained, but if you pay closer attention, there doesn't seem to be any formal constraint keeping things in the top left versus the bottom right. Instead, over time, when it's easier to see with the smaller molecules, they're able to go everywhere. This is what's called a self-mixing system, such that over time, on average, anything can be anywhere. This idea of self-mixing, that on average, anything can be anywhere over time, for at least some of the molecules inside living systems, is going to make the engineering really different. It's not like, oh, I've got a transistor and another transistor and I've got a wire and I connect the two and they're stuck there. Of course, we are going to be able to connect some things in biology to other things, but underneath it all is this self-mixing foundation. For a lot of things, the business of life requires that everything can move around to be everywhere else on average and interact and sample or touch everything else. Very interesting. Spend enough time with this. Find the video online if you like. All these videos, make sure you're gaining empathy for what's going on with the molecules inside living systems. We're going to wrap up for now and offer these reflective questions. Which molecules move faster or slower? Why? Do things make sense to you? Given enough time, how many other molecules will any given molecule interact with? In a diffusing system, will all molecules eventually interact, i.e. collide with everything else? Thinking ahead, how are we going to get organized behavior from this underlying randomness or Brownian motion? Stated differently, what's good about this underlying spontaneous self-mixing from an engineering perspective and what's going to be a challenge? See if you can guess how that might end up.