Today we're going to talk about parts for the genetic control over biological systems. We're going to get into a little bit of the nitty-gritty of how you reprogram cells in order to have new functions. To motivate today's discussion we're going to talk about arsenic. Arsenic is a naturally occurring component of the earth's crust. It's an element and it's sometimes found at high levels in groundwater. Arsenic is highly toxic to people in its inorganic form. Contaminated water that's used for drinking, food prep, or the irrigation of food crops is a public health threat. Long-term exposure to arsenic can cause cancer or skin lesions. What you're seeing on this slide are actually the hands of a person who has been drinking arsenic contaminated water. You can see that the arsenic in the water causes skin lesions in this person's hands but that they clear up relatively quickly when they get access to safe clean drinking water that does not contain arsenic. It's important to try to figure out where there's arsenic contamination in groundwater and to prevent people from consuming that water because of the toxic effects of this element in water. There actually is arsenic in the U.S. groundwater. The slide here is showing you a map of arsenic concentrations in groundwater samples. I just want to point out that this stuff is pretty potently toxic. The National Academy of Sciences estimate that about one in 100 people drinking arsenic contaminated water, that's water that contains at least 50 parts per billion of arsenic, will get cancer assuming that they consume two liters of contaminated water per day. That kind of boils down to the lifetime risk of dying from cancer due to arsenic in tap water at about one in 500. To give you a kind of clearer picture of the map, here it is. I want you to notice that it's kind of all over the country and that it's not easy to detect arsenic in groundwater. Arsenic is odorless and tasteless. There are methods approved by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for detecting arsenic in water, but all of these approved methods require labs and complex equipment. The ones that I'm showing on this slide are called inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry, gas chromatography with atomic absorption spectrometry, and then hydride generation followed by atomic absorption spectrometry. So these are techniques that are good if you're bringing samples from an area into the lab, but it's not as good if you're, for example, interested in testing your tap water at home. Most people probably don't have mass spectrometers at home and wouldn't be able to perform these types of experiments very easily. So bioengineers thought, what if we make a test for arsenic that's a little bit simpler? What if we have bacteria that report contamination by turning fluorescent green? These bacteria have been engineered by people, so this is actually something that people have made. On this part of the slide, you can see a strain engineered to sense arsenic in their water and they turn this fluorescent green color, whereas the wild type bacteria do not. I should point out that these are sensing arsenite. This is a specific form of arsenic in the water and that they are able to detect or have a significant difference between the unengineered bacteria, which are shown on this black line, and the engineered bacteria at the WHO limit of safe arsenic levels in drinking water. So the engineered bacteria are producing a significant fluorescent signal at this limit of 0.33 micromolar arsenic in water. So this is potentially something that you could use in order to detect arsenic in groundwater. You can imagine taking a sample of your water and mixing it with some of these bacteria and just waiting to see, do they turn this fluorescent green? Now, how do you engineer these bacteria to sense arsenic in the water? It's obviously not something that they do naturally, as the wild type bacteria do not turn a bright fluorescent green in response to this water contamination. Well, before we talk about that, we're going to get into key components of the central dogma. I want us to be all on the same page as to how gene expression is controlled in living organisms. The central dogma of molecular biology is just an explanation of how genetic information flows within a biological system. It's usually stated as DNA makes RNA makes protein. Now, for the bacteria to turn green in response to arsenic, they have to make a bunch of green fluorescent protein. So they essentially need to initiate transcription of RNA that encodes for this fluorescent protein, and then translation of that RNA into the protein that then produces the visible signal that you can read out to determine how much arsenic is contaminating your water. Now, transcription is initiated at DNA sequences called promoters. Promoters are segments of DNA to which RNA polymerase and transcription factors bind to initiate the transcription of RNA at genes encoded downstream of a promoter. So on this slide, you're seeing DNA, a region of the DNA that encodes for a promoter, is highlighted in yellow. RNA polymerase, which is this kind of purple circle, binds that segment of DNA and then initiates the expression of downstream genes. You'll notice here that I have this little vent arrow in the corner. We're going to get into what these are in a minute, but there's actually a standard way of representing promoters when you're drawing out synthetic genetic designs. And for promoters, the standard way of representing them is this vent arrow. Now, in addition to promoters, you have ribosome binding sites in bacteria that control translation. So ribosome binding sites are segments on the RNA that are bound by ribosomes to translate a messenger RNA into protein. So these ribosome binding sites will bind a fragment of the ribosome called the 30S complex. The 30S complex makes very specific contact with the RNA at a region called the Shine-Delgarno. This is a consensus sequence of RNA that ribosomes in E. coli really like to bind. So they'll bind there and then they'll bind at the first codon, at a start codon that encodes for your gene of interest downstream. It's the first codon for that gene downstream. After the 30S complex binds to RNA, it will recruit the 50S subunit and those two things combine together to make a functional ribosome. Once the functional ribosome is assembled on the RNA, it will initiate the synthesis of protein. So it will go through and it will read all the codons. It will recruit tRNAs that have an amino acid linked to them and it will take the amino acid from that tRNA and add it to a growing peptide or a growing protein chain. We'll talk about how those proteins then fold up into being functional within the cell, but this is the way that we synthesize these proteins. Now in E. coli, each of these steps are really well understood and actually predictable. So there are these cool things that bioengineers have developed that allow you to calculate how much protein you might get from a given sequence of RNA. If we go back for a second, you might be able to tell that changes in the DNA or in the RNA sequence right here might influence how strongly this subunit of the ribosome binds the RNA. So if it binds really strongly, then you might get more translation because this RNA is very good at recruiting ribosomes to it in order to translate the downstream gene. But if the ribosome subunit has poor affinity for this RNA, let's say the sequence is not C-A-G-G-G-G-G-A-C, but C-A-T-T-T-G-G-A-C or something like that, that's not the optimum for ribosome binding, then the ribosome may bind less frequently to the RNA and give you less translation of the gene that's encoded by the RNA. So you get less protein at the other side. Anyway, these interactions between ribosome binding to specific RNA sequences and then recruitment of the 50S subunit are so well understood that you can make these mathematical models of ribosome binding and the initiation of translation that tell you for a given RNA sequence how much total protein you might expect to be making. So this RBS calculator was developed by a professor at Penn State University called Howard Salas, and it's actually online. I encourage you to go and check it out. Try feeding in an RNA sequence and just seeing how much protein do you think it would make. And as you change that RNA at the kind of five prime and beginning part of the transcript, how does translation or the amount of protein being made change, or at least how is it predicted to change? So I think this is cool. This is a method of being able to tune the amount of protein that's being made. And if we take a close look at the arsenic biosensor, we can see some of these things in action. So this might look a little bit complex at first, but let's start with what we are maybe most familiar with, which is GFP. So GFP is our output signal. Remember that the bacteria makes a lot of GFP in response to arsenic in the water. Expression of GFP is driven by this promoter called PARS. PARS has a binding site in it for a transcription factor called ARSR. So ARSR is a protein that's made constantly in this bacteria. That protein would usually bind to the PARS promoter sequence and prevent any activity of this promoter. You'll notice that its binding site overlaps with something that the researchers have highlighted called the minus 35. This is a segment of the promoter that's important for RNA polymerase to bind the DNA. And when the ARSR protein is sitting on the DNA at this location, it's going to prevent RNA polymerase from binding. So we should get no expression of GFP when ARSR is bound to the promoter and ARSR is produced all the time. So it should always be there preventing the expression of GFP. Now that is true, except when there's arsenic present in the cell. When arsenic is present, it actually binds to the protein and changes the protein's shape just a little bit. It gets in there enough to change the protein's ability to bind DNA. So when the arsenic is present in the system or in the cell, ARSR is not able to bind the DNA. Instead, it comes off of the DNA and now this promoter is open for RNA polymerase to come in and bind the DNA and initiate the expression of GFP. So that is how this sensor works. And in an engineered cell, we will usually have three separate things. We'll have inputs or sensors like we just showed you that initiate or change gene expression in response to various inputs that we care about. So these might be chemicals, these might be metal ions, light, heat, nucleic acids, maybe they're antigens or pathogens. And the bacterial strains or our cells even, they don't have to be bacteria, are engineered to sense these things through sort of similar mechanisms to what I just showed you with the arsenic sensor. And then they have internal logic circuits that integrate this information and initiate the expression of output genes or actuators. So these could be reporters like GFP or RFP, which is red fluorescent protein. These could be proteins that control the movement of a bacterium or control cell growth. They could initiate the expression of different chemicals or other things. These outputs or actuators are genes that cause a change in the cell's behavior. Okay. So these are sort of the different parts of an engineered cell. We, in order to communicate about what is happening within a cell, have come up with a table of glyphs to represent different elements in synthetic biology. So we already talked about the glyph or promoter, but there are also little shorthands for coding sequences or genes, for ribosome binding sites, for terminators. These are segments of DNA that stop the movement or the activity of RNA polymerase. There are also, you know, glyphs to represent primer binding sites when you're talking about amplifying specific segments of DNA. These are really helpful in allowing bioengineers to communicate with one another about what it is they've designed a organism to be able to do. You can imagine maybe sending a sequence of DNA from one person to another, but it can take a while to figure out exactly what that sequence is encoding. And instead, if you send something like this, where the promoter is represented not as the sequence, but as this bent arrow, and the gene is represented not as the sequence, but as this kind of arrow, then you can get a quick understanding of what it is that the engineer was trying to do. It may seem like a lot to think about all of these little glyphs, but I just want you to be aware that they exist, and for you to have this reference table to come back to if at some point during the semester you get confused as to what it is we're showing on the screen. This can be a good cheat sheet, a good way for you to think or to have an idea of what's trying to be represented on the screen. Okay, so we talked a little bit about promoters and coding sequences, and one of the things about bioengineering is that there's this idea that you might be able to standardize these different parts in order to make programs that are easy to put together. Sort of the same way that you assemble Lego bricks into really complex structures, you might be able to just snap together promoters of a known strength. These are promoters that drive, you know, a kind of consistent amount of transcription, perhaps some binding sites of a known strength, proteins that have a consistent impact on the cell. So green fluorescent protein, for example, whenever it's expressed will make the cell fluorescent, and that if you characterize each of these parts well, then you can snap them together in ways that give you a predictable change in an organism's behavior. People would love to be able to assemble parts into programs, like I said, the same way that you assemble Legos, where you go from things represented as DNA to little parts, sort of like Lego bricks, to devices that are sort of sub builds, I guess you would say, maybe like a tower of stacked bricks that has a specific function that you then compile together to get a whole system that does something new. Now this is a beautiful idea for how to do engineering, right? Engineering is built on standardization. You have, you know, screws that are always the same length and same diameter, you have lots of specifications for how each piece in an engineered system would fit together. And so in biology, the equivalent is sort of each DNA segment that encodes for a part being a piece that you can snap together. And this idea is really lovely that you would be able to snap together different segments of DNA, but it doesn't always hold. You know, about 20 years of bioengineering experience have shown that it's not as simple as just having a promoter, a ribosome binding site, and a gene of interest, and a terminator all put together to give you expression of your gene of interest at a specific level. It's actually that different parts influence each other. DNA is one continuous molecule. And so the sequence of the promoter can sometimes affect the ribosome binding site's ability to recruit a ribosome, and that can affect the expression level of a gene of interest. There have been many ways in which people have figured out that each part may interact with each other to give you unpredictable effects. But bioengineers have been addressing each of those problems head on. They've actually instituted additional parts to what we were just showing you with promoters and ribosome binding sites that make the predictability of the system even better. So you might put in insulating sequences that prevent a promoter from affecting the activity of a ribosome binding site. You might put in something that actually just cuts off any residual RNA from the promoter to prevent a ribosome binding site from having its activity changed by the promoter. There are a bunch of different things that bioengineers have done in order to try to make biology more predictable. So here is sort of a modern expression cassette relative to the sort of simple way in which we often represent gene expression control in biological systems. Now this ability to predict how well gene expression can be controlled has led to circuit design automation. These are essentially computer programs in which you can specify the activity of a biological system and then the computer will go through a list of parts, these DNA parts that it has, and figure out how to combine them together in order to give you a genetic program that does exactly what you want. It'll actually spit out the DNA that you need to build and transform into a cell in order to get a cell that has the desired activity. Now these types of computer programs are still complex to build. They require a lot of parts that have been well characterized in the organism that you're trying to engineer. And so we've been able to do it for E. coli, for a gut bacteria called Bacteroides, and for a strain of yeast, it's actually baker's yeast called Saccharomyces cerevisiae. And so for these three cells there exist computer programs that you can use to specify a given behavior and then have it spit out a DNA sequence that should change the bacteria in a way that matches the desired behavior. Okay, so our reflective questions for the week are what DNA parts control transcription and translation? What did we talk about that gives you the ability to tune transcription and translation? How would you manipulate DNA in order to get more or less protein being made? Why are glyphs helpful for communication about bioengineering? And then what are some reasons DNA parts may not behave as modularly as Legos? And then I'd love you to think about what you would design a cell to do if you could design it to do anything.