behave differently. So for example, if you change the strength of this second promoter, this red output promoter, then you can change the kind of whole circuits output. So if this black line is the original circuit and you increase expression or the activity of this red promoter, then you can shift the entire curve up. You basically will be producing more output protein all the time, even as you try to turn it off, you'll still get more than you would have originally. And if you decrease this promoter strength, then you can shift it down. The other things you can do are change the degradation rate of the fluorescent protein, let's say in this case, if you start increasing the rate at which this protein is degraded, let's say you put one of those degradation tags on, but not a very good one, just one that's like kind of okay, you can reduce the amount of fluorescent protein that's being, that's stably produced in the cell at any time and shift this curve down. By changing the ribosome binding site, you can actually shift the curve left and right and change the thresholds. So basically what I want you to take away from this is that there are many ways that you can tune synthetic genetic circuits in order to tune the activity of the, or the behavior of your living cell, your biosensory or your remediator, whatever it is that you're trying to build, your CAR T therapy. These curves, these are not experiments. These are actually mathematical models. So we actually can predict what would be the impact of doing something like changing promoter strength. We understand enough about how biological systems are functioning in order to do this type of prediction. And so if you are a bioengineer and you're designing a synthetic genetic circuit, you might build a mathematical model first and then say, okay, like what parameters do I need in order to make the circuit function correctly? How strong of a promoter do I need? How strong of a ribosome binding site? Stuff like that can help guide the construction of synthetic genetic circuits that have different performances in living cells. Okay, the other thing I'll say is that it's not just the expression control elements that matter, but actually the part choice affects circuit performance. So I showed you two, a couple of different types of AND gates, one of which was built with transcription factors and chaperones. And in this case, if you, the AND gate that gets built is very sensitive to changes in both the chaperone and activator expression levels. And so what do I mean by that? Well, it responds dynamically to changes in these things. If you have input one and input two pulsed into your system over time. So let's say you have a bacteria and it's living for three hours, and then you add inducers, both the tetracycline and the arabinose, those were the two triggers for promoter one and promoter two to initiate or become active. So you add both of them together, then you will get expression of both your chaperone and your activator at the same time, your transcription factor. Those things will bind to the promoter and initiate expression of your output gene. And so you'll see an increase in the amount of your output over time, and then it will hit eventually a saturation. And when your chaperone and your activator, when both things are still being expressed, it will stay on. But then if you wash away the arabinose and your tetracycline, these two input molecules, eventually you'll stop making the chaperone and activator, and then expression of your output gene will turn back off. So you get this kind of dynamic response to the inputs. If you have them temporally separated, then you'll actually never see the input or the AND gate turn on, right? If first you make some activator because you have one of your inputs present, then you stop adding that molecule, and later you add the other molecule, you will get chaperone being expressed, and then later on in the cell, you'll get the activator being expressed, but they were never expressed together. They were never expressed at the same time. And so they won't be able to activate expression of your output gene. And so this type of AND gate shows you when both inputs are present at the same time, when the bacteria is experiencing both of them together. But this recombinase-based AND gate does something different. It makes a permanent change in the DNA. Remember, one of the recombinases will invert a terminator, and the other invertase will invert the other terminator, but these inversions, these are permanent. So they are permanently changing the DNA. So if you express, and they take a long time to initiate relative to the expression of your activator and chaperone. So if you have both promoter one and promoter two triggered at the same time, if you start expressing both recombinases at the same time, you will get expression of your output gene slowly turning on as these recombinases catalyze this inversion. But what's really interesting is that if these things are temporally separated, you will get the first invertase expressed early on. It will invert its piece of DNA, its terminator that it recognizes. And then that invertase, the promoter expressing it may shut back off. You may stop making this recombinase, but it will have already done its inversion thing So now this piece of DNA is sitting here with one terminator inverted and the other one still preventing expression of GFP. But if you put the other input into the cell, then you can get inversion of the second invertase and expression of your output gene. So this AND gate is actually reporting whether or not your two inputs were ever delivered into the cell, not whether they were delivered together. So it's just an interesting like nuance of how when like your choice in what biomolecules to use to construct synthetic genetic circuits affect the cell's behavior. And so there's this big race within synthetic biology or bioengineering to figure out what are all the different types of molecules I can use to build synthetic genetic circuits. And when I build circuits with this molecules, how do they behave? So I just wanna leave you with that thought and then I have some reflective questions. So I want you to think about like what are other biomolecules that you could use to build AND gates? Maybe these are biomolecules you've heard of in your biology courses, or maybe you're just, you know, dreaming. Maybe you're thinking like, if only there were a biomolecule that did this thing, we could build a really cool AND gate with unique dynamic responses or, you know, other unique properties. I want you to reflect for a little while on what would be an interesting biomolecule to build a logical AND gate with. Wanna think about why tuning gene expression affects circuit behavior, and then what situations you think synthetic genetic circuits could be helpful in.