Welcome to Introduction to Bioengineering at Stanford University. We're going to take a look at the polkadorks and see whether or not they got their design right. This is a fabulous example of the power of abstraction to help us debug genetic designs in synthetic biology. So, let's go on the website. I'll share my screen. Great. And we're going to type in polkadorks and no, I really mean that. Okay. And here we are. So, back in 2004, these folks want to design a dynamic repeating bacterial flash mob, just to remind us their dream, their intention, right? We're talking about abstraction, a language for programming in life. They want to have cells randomly moving around, Brownian motion maybe. They're all flipping coins. One cell comes up heads, changes color, starts broadcasting a diffusible signal shown in green. Other cells are attracted to that signal and they move up the gradient towards the source of the signal. And after a while, the party gets tiresome at the molecular to cellular scale and the system resets and everybody goes about their business and it repeats. So, that's what this thing is supposed to be doing. Okay. So, we're going to look at the device level system diagram. So, their system specification is this animated GIF. Their device level system diagram gives us a high level representation of how they think this could work. If we try to debug down at this level, like there could be problems down at the parts level or at the genetic layout level, but it's so complicated down here. We really want to focus our debugging on this abstracted intermediate level resolution, the device level. All right. So, trigger, that's a coin flipper. And if the coin flipper comes up, it kicks the signal out to this two input on switch here. And all right. And it's a two input gate into a three input switch, actually. So, we're going to have to come try and understand that. And this looks like an or gate, I guess. So, if the trigger is on or if this other signal is on, then do some things. The things it should do is make an attractant. That's the diffusible signal that causes other things to show up. And change colors. So, that's the thing we saw in the animation. So, that kind of makes sense. Now, interesting thing about this switch is a three input switch. So, it's got an off signal. And I presume this is dominant. Meaning that if the signal C coming in is high, it's going to override whatever this A or B signal is telling it to turn on R. And this on signal is responding to another diffusible molecule, homoserine lactone. Where's that coming from? It looks like every cell in the system, just at a low basal level, spontaneously producing some amount of homoserine lactone. And if that signal gets high enough, all cells will receive it. And they will start producing an off signal into this switch. Which would cause the system to reset or turn off. Okay. So, let's just, we're getting there. Let's keep going. Let's look at this attractor. If the switch is on, it's making this attractor ASP or aspartate, I guess. This is going to be something that cells will chemotax towards. And so, for that to happen, we loop back around. Aspartate is an input to all cells. And if cells receive aspartate, they respond. This is the chemotactic response. Towards aspartate. But they also receive a reinforcing signal that goes into the switch. It's like, okay, so let's just play it out. Let's see if this makes sense. Flipping coins, if one cell triggers, it starts making an attractor and it changes colors. And the attractor, if that gets received by another cell, that cell will start moving towards the party, the cell that turned on. And as it moves towards the party, the cell that turns on, the cell that received the aspartate is going to join the party and start making more aspartate. So, there's a really interesting positive feedback loop here manifesting at the population level. One cell randomly turns on, it starts making aspartate. Other cells receive that signal providing a second input B into the switch that causes additional cells to start making aspartate. And so, we're just going to get this big positive feedback producing more and more aspartate that's going to recruit more and more cells to make aspartate. And all the cells receiving the aspartate signal are going to be heading up the gradient towards the aspartate. And I guess all the cells are going to change color. That's interesting. Not just the first cell is going to change color, but every cell that is jamming out to aspartate is going to start changing colors. So, it's a little bit different. Only the first cell in this animation change colors. So, the first bug in this device level diagram we can see is that all the cells are probably going to change color. Okay. So, we've got this positive feedback, but so far, it's looking pretty interesting. We're going to make this diffusible signal. The other cells are going to help make the diffusible signal. We're definitely going to get this clustering of cells towards a high concentration of aspartate, and they're all going to be red. A little bit different, but okay. So, we know we're going to get clustering. Now, how is this going to play out, this quorum sensing? So, this is getting made in the background, and when it gets high enough, then everybody's going to turn on C, like a high C signal, which is going to turn off the switch. And if we turn off the switch, then we're not going to make aspartate anymore, and we're not going to make the color anymore in the first cell. That seems pretty good. But we're still making homoserine lactone. Nothing's turning this off, and so this signal C is never going to go down. Like, this is just a constitutive source that comes out of every cell, that every cell can receive, and above some threshold concentration will turn off everything else. And so, I think this doesn't cycle. I think this only comes together with a little bit of a bug of everybody turns red, and then it does shut off, but is it going to reset and start back up? Um, I don't think so. Something would have to remove the HSL signal. Okay, so we just looked at this device level system diagram, and by thinking carefully about how the signals are flowing, and how that relates to the desired specified behavior, we can find one or two bugs that you might want to think about. Like, maybe we need a little bit of a feedback here to turn this off, so that the reset signal itself will reset, and maybe we want to think about whether or not we care. Should only one cell turn color, or should every cell in the party bring their flashlight to the raid, or something like that? But isn't it interesting? Instead of going down to this level and debugging, we can just do some high-level debugging and see if the block diagrams and the control feedbacks make sense. Cool!