So we're gonna talk about DNA sequencing technologies. To start this off, I want you to imagine that you're deep undersea, you're exploring, you're swimming around, and you see this really bright pink organism, something you've never quite seen before, swimming around, it's got lots of tentacles, maybe like a little bit of a cross between an octopus and a jellyfish, but it's glowing this glow that you've never seen before. And so you reach out towards it and you touch it, but as you touch it, it gets scared and it drops one of its tentacles and swims away quickly. Sort of the same way that a lizard might drop its tail when you grab it, it knows that if it releases whatever has got your attention then maybe it can get away faster. So you're left there in the dark now with just this tentacle, it's still glowing a little bit, and you're intrigued. You wanna know more about this organism, you wanna know whether that glow could be useful for something else. So my question to you is what can you do with that tentacle to find the source of the pink glow? Can you, is there any information in that tentacle that you can get at in order to figure out how this deep sea creature was glowing and whether or not you can engineer that same feature into other organisms? Well, if you had its genomic sequence, you could predict the genes that are encoded within its genome. Here you're just seeing a zoom in on a piece of DNA and each protein encoded in the genome will start with a start codon, something like ATG is the most common three letters that encode for a start codon, although occasionally a TTG or GTG will also be able to serve this function. And then in frame, that means a multiple of three bases downstream of this ATG will be a stop codon. There are several stop codons, TAA, this one that you're seeing here is one of them. And these are the codons that tell the ribosome, you've reached the end of a protein, you can let go now. So if you find a start codon and stop codon that are a multiple of three bases away from each other, then you've likely found a gene. So in some ways, just looking at genome sequence can allow you to predict where genes are encoded within the genome. Now, we talked a little bit about splicing in the previous lecture, and so you'll know it's not quite this simple and there are mathematical models, there are ways of trying to predict gene sequence, even genes that have introns in them that may shift the coding range or the coding window. But at a high level, this is something that's possible to do. It's possible to predict where genes might be encoded in the genome. And it's becoming increasingly possible to also predict the function of those genes. Now, before we knew a lot about proteins, we didn't really have an idea or a way of predicting what an individual protein might be doing. We would just know that it was possible that that region of the genome encoded for a protein. Now we have the really nice data from a lot of organisms that we can compare our genes to. So we can do something like a protein sequence alignment where we take a protein from our mysterious deep sea creature and we align it. We look for matches in the human genome, in the chimp genome, in a mouse or in another well-studied organism. And we see, are there any regions of those genomes that look like the region of the genome from my deep sea creature? That might tell us if there's a high match in this case, the protein sequence, that might tell us that the proteins serve a similar function. We also talked before about how structure can be more important than the sequence of the protein as it's actually the three-dimensional structure of the protein that is contributing the most towards the function. And so using something like AlphaFold, you might be able to predict the structure of a gene encoded in your deep sea creature's genome and then align the structure. See, these are two different proteins doing a structural alignment. One is in red and one is in yellow and you can see that their structures are very similar. So by doing something like this, you can have an even better idea that maybe these two proteins serve the same function. So with this capacity to predict what genes are in a genome and what those genes may be doing, what the proteins that they encode for may do, then it becomes really exciting to start applying DNA sequencing technologies to all kinds of organisms to start to try to figure out what are they doing? What are they capable of doing? And how are they doing it? I do wanna point out that our knowledge of gene function is still pretty limited. And so it's likely that there will be large portions, most of the genome of this organism we wouldn't necessarily understand, but we have some tools to begin to figure out what portions of a new organism's genome might be doing. Now, how do you figure out the sequence of this organism's genome? Well, if we're 1980, if it were 40 years ago, you might try DNA sequencing with the Sanger method. Sanger is essentially DNA sequencing by synthesis. This is a picture of Fred Sanger. He invented this method. And just want you to remember that usually when we synthesize DNA, we have a template strand and then we have the strand that you're building. And so you'll incorporate individual DNA bases to pair with the template strand. And so Sanger invented a method of observing what bases are getting incorporated as DNA synthesis is occurring. And by reading out which bases are getting incorporated, you would know the sequence of the template strand. Now, the thing that he... Oh, okay. So usually DNA synthesis requires deoxynucleotides. So here's the sugar backbone, the base that A, T, C, or G is just indicated by this little circle that says base here, but just imagine that there are nucleosides here. And then the sugar backbone has an OH group at one end and a triphosphate, that's what these things are, at the other end. And this oxygen or OH group interacts with the triphosphate to catalyze a reaction that leads to the attachment of this new nucleotide onto the growing DNA strand, right? So this presence of this OH group is really important for the elongation of a DNA molecule. And this is what's happening in all of your cells as your DNA replicates, this type of chemistry is occurring. But what Sanger found was that if you use a dideoxynucleotide, so something where there are no OH groups on the base, then it stops DNA synthesis. You essentially terminate the reaction. You can no longer elongate the DNA. Now, why would that be useful? Well, if you make a mixture of four different solutions and you try to run PCR, polymerase chain reaction, you try to synthesize the opposite strand of a DNA piece that you wanna sequence, and you have a mixture of dideoxynucleotides and regular nucleotides in each reaction condition, then you'll get DNA synthesis that stops at different points. So if you're synthesizing, you always synthesize from the five prime to three prime direction. So this might be the first base that you try to synthesize. And if you're in this two, if you're in this reaction condition, then you'll probably incorporate a DDTTP, a dideoxynucleotide, and stop the growing reaction. Whereas if you're in this DDCTP, you may elongate with that one base and then have a stop at C. What I wanna point out is that this contains a mixture of nucleotides that are both dideoxy and deoxynucleotide. So occasionally in even this reaction condition, you'll incorporate a T as normal in this position, and then go on to hit another T later where you incorporate a terminal nucleotide. Okay, why does this matter? Well, that means that in this reaction, you have a collection, in each reaction actually, you have a collection of DNA of different lengths. And then you can run those out on a gel using gel electrophoresis to see how long the base or the segments of DNA are. So in this case, if we had this T is supposed to indicate a reaction in which you had all four regular nucleotides and then one dideoxynucleotide TTP. And that one, you had one really short fragment corresponding to this one base long DNA sequence, and then one kind of medium fragment corresponding to here. The A, you had a different length of molecules because it was terminating every time it reached an A. Here, you're terminating every time you reach a G, and here you're terminating every time you reach a C. So if you wanna go back and read the sequence, you would say, okay, the first base is a T, the next base is a C, the next base is a G, the next base is an A, an A, right? And you can do that because you know that the sequence of this length is only possible because we incorporated a stopping nucleotide at that location. Okay, so hopefully that's clear. I thought it was a really, or it is a very clever way of trying to read back DNA sequence because it's actually not that easy to do. And here's an example of what one of the Sanger sequencing gels actually look like. You can see how each length of DNA leads to a slightly different, or yeah, each reaction leads to a slightly different collection of DNA lengths, and you can read back out what the sequence might be. But notice, you probably have 20, 25 bases read here. And if the human genome is 3.2 billion bases long, it would take a very long time to use Sanger sequencing gels in order to sequence the entire thing. It's not to say you couldn't do it, it just might take quite a while. So people started doing things that would not require you to run a gel at the end since reading back out that gel is quite time-consuming. Actually developed these dideoxynucleotides. Remember, these are the ones that terminate the chain reaction, the elongation of DNA, that have fluorescent dyes attached to them. And so as you synthesize DNA along your template, if you incorporate one of these chain-terminating, fluorescently-labeled nucleotides, then you would end up with a piece of DNA of a specific length with a specific color dye at the end. And then you can take this big mixture. Now you don't have to do four different reactions. You can do them all together since each nucleotide has a different color. And you can run them through what's called a capillary gel. So now instead of having a big gel where you're able to visualize each lane, it's this very thin tube that's full of gel. And it still separates the DNA based on size. So the smallest pieces of DNA will run through the fastest. But as you are running the DNA through, you're actually using a laser to excite these fluorophore dyes and then detecting to see, okay, well, did I see a red dye? Did I see a green dye? Did I see a blue dye? And you know, based on the order of the dyes coming through what the sequence is. So this type of reaction gives you data that looks like this. We call these chromatograms, where each peak corresponds to the passage of a DNA of a specific length through this laser detector region, showing you that there's a piece of DNA that's this length that has this specific base. In this case, I think pink is a G incorporated in your DNA. So this has helped accelerate DNA sequencing quite a lot. Up until the last year or two, this was the most common method used by my lab and that I used all throughout graduate school to do DNA sequencing. But there are some newer, what's called next generation sequencing technologies that will allow you to do even more sequencing to get at like even the sequences of even bigger genomes. Because again, these types of reactions, they're very good up until about a thousand bases of DNA, but it would still take a really long time to sequence a human genome if you're doing it in thousand base pair chunks. Okay, so there are these next generation sequencing methods and these are what we're gonna talk about today. I think that they're all super interesting. It's really cool to see how people have figured out how to sequence DNA. We're gonna go through kind of how they each work and what the benefits and drawbacks of each method might be. So the first one that we're gonna talk about is actually a variation on sequencing by synthesis. We're calling it next generation sequencing by synthesis and this is what is used by a company called Illumina. The machines that they build actually look just like this. Okay, so Illumina sequencing is sort of similar in that you're going to be incorporating bases with a mixture of either dyes or, sorry, you're gonna be incorporating a mixture of bases, each of which has a dye on them. And these are, yeah, all done on a chip instead of in solution. So what happens is you take a bunch of genomic DNA and you shear it into pieces. You can actually agitate a solution of DNA in a way that breaks it into fairly regular pieces. Then what you do is you ligate on, you attach little short DNA sequences called adapters. These adapters all have exactly the same sequence and what they're gonna do is allow you to bind your pieces of genomic DNA to what's called a flow cell. So this is a little chip that basically has tiny pieces of DNA already stuck onto it. And those tiny pieces of DNA are complimentary to your adapter sequences of DNA. So those little adapters allow you to stick pieces of genomic DNA onto the chip. And then you do something called bridge PCR where what you're really trying to do is get clusters of DNA that's all identical right next to each other. So it's really difficult with this Illumina method to sequence a single molecule of DNA. So they do amplify it in this location. We can talk about how this kind of bridge amplification works if you're curious, but I think it's sufficient to just know that it occurs and it gives you clusters of DNA that's all identical in little locations along this chip. And then what you do is you flow through across this chip a solution of nucleotides that are each terminating, but they have a special chemistry. So they're terminating in that you can only incorporate one of these bases at a time and each one of the bases are color-coded. So you might have an A be red, a T be yellow, a C be green and a G be blue. And you can then see, as you synthesize the strand of DNA, you can take a picture of the chip and see what color occurred at the location of each of your pieces of DNA. So what do I mean by that? Okay, so like if you can think of this as going in time as we move from top to bottom. So if the first base is red then, or an A, then it's gonna appear red and then you'll wash out all of the remaining bases. You'll do what's called unblocking where you then make the base ready to receive a second base. You'll flow in a new set of nucleotides and a T might attach there and so you'll read it as yellow. You'll repeat and the next time it might be green, the next time it might be blue. And so as you image that spot over time, you'll see the color change and that correspondence to the sequence of the DNA that's at that location on the chip. This is what one of these chips look like. So this is a flow cell. It's pretty small, 75 millimeters by 25 millimeters. This is what an image of one of those flow cells look like right after you've flowed your nucleotides over it. So you can see the individual spots where there's DNA adhered to the chip and the color indicates what base was incorporated then. There are about 1.6 billion of these spots per flow cell. So you can now measure like 1.6 billion molecules of DNA clusters of DNA simultaneously. So I think that's pretty cool. Now, this is what this looks like in real time as you are, well, it's maybe a little sped up, but this is what this looks like over time as you flow in and out different chemicals, different bases, and you do that blocking, unblocking step. You have to track individual spots and see what color comes up. And so it's actually a big image processing problem to figure out how to track each of these, how to know when the color has changed to indicate a new base has been incorporated and all of that stuff. But I think it's pretty impressive. This type of sequencing method is very powerful. It can sequence a lot more DNA than the Sanger sequencing method we talked about before. Now, one of the problems with Illumina sequencing is that it generates short reads. So it only can read DNA sequences that are around 75 to 300 bases long. And that's okay, except 75 to 300 bases is not a lot of bases of DNA. And when you wanna figure out how the whole genome is assembled together, then you would assemble each of these little short reads into contigs. So what does that mean? That means you would basically look for regions where they overlap slightly or significantly even and say, okay, well, clearly, like these two segments of DNA, they're next to each other, they're like partially overlapping. Because when you do that shearing, you have to remember the...