All right, now we're going to talk about DNA synthesis. I want you to imagine that you're trying to engineer E. coli to degrade plastic. You've identified a gene encoding a plastic degrading enzyme from a soil bacterium. You have the gene sequence, but no access to the bacteria itself because you found the sequence in the NIH, the National Institute for Health's sequence database. How do you get the DNA encoding this enzyme? Well, you could try to track down the soil bacterium or maybe you could try DNA synthesis. You can actually synthesize DNA from scratch. You can take the individual bases and sugars that make up DNA and stick them together to make new DNA sequences. At a high level, DNA synthesis looks like this. You add a base that is chemically blocked so that you can only add one base to a substrate. In this case, you're going to start out with a solid support, maybe a chip or a bead that this base can bind to. Then you're going to do what's called an oxidation reaction to get the base to adhere to your support and then you're going to deblock. You're going to remove the chemical group that was preventing multiple bases from getting added at once. Then you're going to add a new set of blocked bases, only one of which will be able to be incorporated because it will not have the capacity to get a new base put onto it. You'll go around this cycle several times. You'll attach the new base via oxidation. You'll unblock it and then you'll be able to add in a third base. In time, you can build up a sequence of DNA that looks like this. Now, the chemistry of DNA synthesis is actually quite special. Non-templated DNA synthesis, so this is the synthesis of completely new DNA sequences. I'm going to try to move this out of the way. Requires phosphoramidate chemistry. If this is a typical adenine nucleotide, you have your sugar backbone, you have a phosphate group, and then you have the base. This is the adenine part of the nitrogenous base. When you attach an adenine or an A base onto a growing strand of DNA, this phosphate will react with the oxygen group, this hydroxyl group on the previous base of DNA in order to make a stable bond. In this sequence, this is a short segment of DNA. You have a thiamine, a T, an adenine, an A, and then you have another adenine, this one, for example, attached onto the end and it's attached again through this phosphate and sugar reaction. A phosphoramidate is a special type of base. If you look really hard in the middle here, you can see that sugar backbone and that adenine base, but it's got a bunch of chemical modifications to it. It has what's called a variable group that protects the amine, that protects the base part essentially. You have this DMT moiety that protects the phosphate. Instead of there being a phosphate here, you have this big, bulky DMT. Then instead of the hydroxyl, you have this phosphoramidate moiety. We'll talk in a second about what that does, but it is essentially this phosphoramidate moiety and these other protecting things that allow you to add single bases at a time to a growing segment of DNA. We're going to talk first about how the seminal patent for this phosphoramidate-based DNA synthesis was filed in 1984. Similar chemistries have been used since 1984 to synthesize DNA for nearly 40 years. That phosphoramidate chemistry hasn't changed all that much. Basically, each of these things can be chemically added and removed in order to do that type of blocking and unblocking that I was talking about on the previous slide. Today, DNA synthesis is automated and miniaturized. You can, instead of adding or building up one sequence of DNA at a time, you can actually get these chips that have arrays of addressable surface clusters. That means that you can individually add bases to each spot on this chip in order to build up very specific sequences of DNA at each spot. Here's an example of what one of these chips looks like. You can synthesize around one million strands of DNA simultaneously on one of these chips. There are many chip-based synthesis methods. All of them use that phosphoramidate chemistry. One example of how you can add a very specific base at a time is with a bioprinter where you're simply printing out each base at a time. Here's an example of this going through, the addition of one base and then changing of the chemistry or the environment that all of this DNA is sitting in to uncap that DNA molecule so it can receive the next base. That's basically, that's the beautiful thing about phosphoramidate synthesis, is that ability to cap and uncap. Although this is super exciting that you can synthesize DNA from scratch using this method by specifying which base you add in what order. This synthesis steps are not perfect and we're pretty limited in the length of DNA that we can synthesize. Even though we can synthesize millions of DNA sequences simultaneously, the synthesis is going to be of fragments that are around 100, maybe 50 bases in length. That's because the synthesis methods incorporate errors. On this graph, what you're seeing is as the length of the DNA that you're trying to synthesize increases, the percent of the molecules that you're trying to make that are correct goes down. If you're only synthesizing 50 base pair segments of DNA, then you have pretty good synthesis fidelity. Most of the molecules that you try to make are going to be the correct sequence, around 80 percent of them. But if you try to synthesize longer fragments of DNA, your sequence fidelity goes down. That might suggest to you that this is maybe not all that useful. 50 bases, that's not a lot of DNA. But what people do is synthesize these short fragments of DNA and then use something called overlap extension PCR in order to stitch them into larger pieces of DNA. Each of these little blue arrows is supposed to be a short segment of DNA. If you design them so that they have overlapping sequence, then you mix them all together. You can get these short pieces of synthesized DNA to bind together. Then you can use PCR and a polymerase essentially to fill in the missing gaps. Now it's templated DNA synthesis instead of untemplated. The polymerase will, with high fidelity, fill in all of these gaps. You can use that type of overlap extension PCR to build up long segments of DNA from short synthesized regions. That's exciting. The only problem is that the methods don't do well with repeated sequence. For the same reason, it's difficult to sequence repeated regions of a genome using short reads. It is difficult to synthesize repeated regions of DNA using short oligonucleotides. You may have designed oligos or short segments of DNA to match each part of a repeated sequence. DNA molecules, when they're assembling together, they don't know that you were trying to make multiple copies here. This oligonucleotide is essentially identical to this one. You may end up only getting one copy of a region of DNA in which you are trying to make three. This is just a screen grab from a DNA sequence browsing program called BenchLink. If you want, you can check these out. They're free, and I encourage you to try browsing around looking at DNA sequences. What's exciting is that the cost of doing DNA sequencing and synthesis is going down. It's actually going down at the same rate that computers are getting less expensive, which is exciting. Moore's law is an observation and a projection of a historical trend. It states that the number of transistors in a dense integrated circuit doubles every two years, even though the cost of computers is halved. What that means is that you're getting more computing power for less cost every year. If you were to align Moore's law, this exponential decrease in cost with how much DNA synthesis is cost in genome sequencing, you'll see that these DNA-based technologies are also coming down in cost very, very rapidly on the same scale. Maybe a little bit later, so we're not quite as cheap as some of the hardware computing stuff, but it's coming, and it's exciting to watch all of these new technologies get developed and to come online at a pretty low price point. One question that I think is important to raise is, is there anything that we shouldn't synthesize? Within the limits of overlap extension assembly, within the limits of how you stitch these small DNA sequences together, it's technically possible to synthesize any segment of DNA. Should we, or should we impose limitations? If we do impose limitations, who should enforce them? What would be off limits? Should we be able to synthesize the genomes of pathogens? Is there utility in doing that? If we synthesize the DNA of a virus, for example, we can put it into a bunch of human cells growing in the lab. In addition, those cells will take the instructions for making those viruses, and they will make virus. You can actually get live virus out of cells that way. In some ways, having virus in the lab is helpful because then you can study how the virus behaves. You can use it to search for treatments, but in other ways, synthesizing that viral sequence could be dangerous in the hands of somebody who wasn't interested in trying to find a cure for the whatever disease the virus causes, but is actually interested in making it more virulent, more pathogenic. So there are tough things to think about in this space. As this technology gets better and cheaper, it may become more widespread. So what do we do? Today, DNA synthesis is monitored by the International Gene Synthesis Consortium. This is a collection of primarily gene synthesis companies who have got together to develop an answer to this question of what should we synthesize and for whom. They have come up with a harmonized screening protocol to prevent the synthesis of potentially dangerous DNA. This harmonized screening protocol is essentially an agreement that all of these companies have signed on to. And they are agreeing to screen the DNA that people are requesting to have synthesized by sequence. They're basically looking to see, are you trying to synthesize part of a known pathogen? They're also screening by customer. So they do a little bit of background check and they look to see, are you on any of these lists where we probably shouldn't be supplying you with biological materials? And they also agreed to keep records. So they make note of who has synthesized what and when, so that they can go back and look for trends, potentially identifying people who have no previous criminal records, but maybe have problems that are problematic patterns that are appearing in their synthesis orders. It can also refuse. And if they do refuse to synthesize DNA for somebody, then they report problematic orders to the group as a whole. And then the protocol also has each company, many of which they're located in a bunch of different countries all over the world, comply with all of their local laws. And so this is not to supersede anything that maybe the U.S. government has put into place to regulate synthesis. But I encourage you to check out this harmonized screening protocol to take a close look at what gene sequences are deemed off limits by this group, to think about what customer attributes are deemed off limits by this group, and then who is comprising the group. One of the things that I think is really interesting about the IGSC is that it is voluntary. And so not every gene synthesis needs to be a part of it. And that's problematic because even if these companies have come up with a good protocol for screening potentially hazardous sequences, if not everyone is doing it, then there are still mechanisms by which you could synthesize something that maybe wouldn't be beneficial to humanity or the planet. Okay, that's kind of a sad note to end on, but I would like you to instead, or in addition, I guess, think about what you can do with DNA synthesis. So we did talk about how with DNA synthesis, you might be able to synthesize an enzyme from a soil bacterium that is supposed to degrade plastics, but there might be other ways to tackle the plastic degradation problem with DNA synthesis. For example, if you use one of those deep learning approaches to design a completely new enzyme, then you need to make it somehow, right? You need to make the DNA that encodes for that enzyme. And so you can use a combination of that deep learning algorithm and the synthesis technologies to bring these new proteins into existence, which is really quite cool. Another thing you might be able to do is screen through genomes to look for PETAs, like plastic degrading enzyme homologs that may also have some capacity to degrade plastics. And maybe even better than the one that the soil bacterium you had originally found had, or than the deep learning approach. So there's different, and sorry, the metagenomic data, that just means that there's DNA in a database somewhere, there's sequence information, but there's no physical DNA anymore. Like people don't have that, but they do have the sequence. And so you can kind of revive or reaccess DNA that you only have the information about using something like synthesis. Okay. So I hope you're inspired to look into DNA synthesis a little bit more closely. I want you to think a little bit more about the harmonized screening protocol and whether or not you think companies should work on developing at-home DNA synthesizers, sort of like the smidge ion, but for writing DNA. Is that a good idea? Does that open accessibility or does that make biosecurity risks? Where are the lines in these places? And how do we think about drawing them if they don't already exist? What sequence would you synthesize if you were to make DNA? The potential is here. And so let's start thinking about it together.