So it lasts for hundreds of years, thousands of years. But the kicker is really the property on the right. When I talk to librarians, they had to teach me this. They're very skeptical about putting their most important information, the library, into digital archives, because the technology of digital archives has been changing so quickly. And if you're a librarian, you want to make sure your library is around in 100 years or 500 years. Would you feel comfortable putting it into a compact disc or a DVD or a USB stick? These technologies don't even last that long. But for them, they also have to think about the people visiting the library in 100 years. Are they going to know how to use a USB drive? How many people know how to use an 8-track tape still? How many people? Do you have an 8-track tape player where you are? That was state of the art just a few decades ago. Now imagine what's going to be the technology that's relevant for digital storage in 100 years. The cool thing about DNA from the librarian's perspective, and again, they had to teach me this, is people are in love with themselves. We're in love with ourselves. And we have DNA inside us, and we like reading out our DNA. And so if you can move your library into DNA, you can have confidence that if people are still around, if Homo sapiens still exist, that it's very likely they'll be DNA sequencers. They'll be readers for reading out the tape, right? And so that's the subtle but profound reason. It doesn't matter how immature it is right now. Well, if you can get your library into DNA and make that technology better over time, you can guarantee that the readers will exist and people who know how to use the DNA readers will exist in 100 years, 500 years, for as long as people exist, right? So it's the ultimate obsolescence insurance policy, DNA is not going to go obsolete from the perspective of Homo sapiens. So puzzle with that in your mind until you understand it, but like that was something that was a really big aha for me. How to store DNA, data in DNA, simplest way to think about it is if I'm going from bits, zeros and ones, then I could just say, well, you know, a zero is going to be represented by an A or T, right? And if I see an A or T, or if I put an A or T on a DNA strand, that's a zero. If I have a one, I want to put it on DNA, a C or a G, right? So that's a simple one to two transcoding. It's not the most data dense. You could obviously store two bits of data in each position on DNA because there's four options, right? So you could store a zero zero into an A and a zero one into a T and a one zero into a C and a one one into a G and so on. So these are pretty straightforward, simple transcoding. There are other things you can do, which instead of using binary digits in the DNA, you could say, well, we want to make sure that when we get to the sequence of DNA encoding the data, that the base that's being used is always changing, right? And so we're going to use a ternary digit code where the base that follows depends on the preceding base. And you can see if you can work through how to do that. But there's an infinite number of ways to go from information into DNA. One thing I should say very plainly is you don't have to go through binary digits or bits, right? Let's say you wanted to encode music into DNA, like a piece of piano music. You could just say, well, here is the sheet music and the notes on the sheet music and the octaves. And I'm just going to directly give different notes in the sheet music, different sequences or letters of DNA. So I just want to take care. You don't have to do DNA data storage by going through binary, right? Infinite options, right? And part of the puzzle you've got in front of you is to consider imagining one or more of these. One thing I want to highlight, which is subtle, is why not just go with full data density of two bits to one position? And the answer comes down to reliability of reading and writing. And as we've heard, these tools for reading and writing of DNA are amazing, but they're not always perfect. And we can make things easier for the tools if we, for example, are always making sure that the letter is changing A, C, T, G from one to the next. Why might that be the case? Well, when you do the actual reading out off of one of these machines, you might get a peak that says, oh, the base right here is an A. And if you have a lot of A's in a row, the machines is going to be saying like, ah. And you're going to have to be parsing that signal really carefully if it's possible at all to discriminate between, was that two A's or three A's? Was that five A's or six A's? But if instead you're trying to read out a sequence that's A, C, T, G, C, T, where each position is always different, you'll get a very discreetly different signal. And so it makes the reading more accurate. So we can choose data storage codes that make it easier to do read and write. Whether you should do that or not is going to depend on other variables in a particular application. And just to close on this, if you want to learn more and if you want to see more evidence for what's going on, suddenly there's the DNA Storage Alliance, the DNA Data Storage Alliance with this website. And look at all these organizations that are now clustering around this topic to try and figure out how to invent this version of bioengineering future. Were you expecting in bioengineering suddenly it's about libraries and librarians and archival data storage? I wasn't, at least not until I started thinking about this DNA read-write trend and how it might impact things beyond living systems directly. What else? What else might we expect seeing these trends? What else could be happening? I'll give you some other examples. When DNA sequencing got cheap enough, it turned out that it changed how health care could be provided for pregnant women. For example, our youngest child is six years old. And when Christina, my wife, was pregnant with our second child, we had a new experience at the hospital. They took a blood draw, and in the blood of healthy pregnant women, there's DNA circulating from the fetus. And that's normal. And you can use DNA sequencing to read out that DNA and determine what's going on with the fetus genetically. So 10 weeks into our second pregnancy, we knew that our second child would be a boy because Christina, my wife, had Y chromosome DNA from the fetus, male chromosome DNA, in her blood. This is before you can see what's going on with ultrasound or another method. With our first child, this technology didn't exist in the hospital here. So it's like, oh, there's two data points. What's going on? This is called cell-free DNA or non-invasive prenatal screening. It's a technology that can displace amniocentesis or more invasive ways of collecting samples from a fetus. Well, here's something at the opposite end of the spectrum. Maybe you live in a neighborhood and you're worried about dogs pooping everywhere. What if you could register your dog and its DNA and have some, by the way, I don't know if this is a good idea or not, it's called poo prints. What if you could use DNA sequencing to determine who wasn't cleaning up after their dog? Well, that's something that becomes possible apparently when DNA sequencing becomes accessible and affordable enough. Here's another example. It's like, okay, somebody used a 3D printer to print a bunny rabbit, but they didn't use just a normal 3D print material. They actually, in the material that they were using to do the 3D printing, the polymers, they included glass beads and inside the glass beads were synthetic DNA. And the synthetic DNA was encoding the data for the computer file to 3D print the rabbit. Stated differently, this abiotic plastic object has a DNA genome, which is the computer instructions for 3D printing this object. And so because of that, you could cut off a little bit of the rabbits here, recover the DNA, sequence it, get the computer file and use that to print more rabbits. And so they're showing in the bottom, this life cycle of an abiotic object that has its own instructions for reproducing itself encoded in DNA. DNA, it's not in a living system, it's in a glass bead and just like make more rabbits. They call this a DNA of things storage architecture to create materials with embedded memory. They put movie recordings in DNA encoded in the lenses of glasses. You could put all the information needed to rebuild civilization into DNA and then put that DNA in glass beads and embed that in your refrigerator handle. Such that if there was ever an apocalypse, you'd like, okay, we're going to reboot civilization by recovering the information from our refrigerator. You put arbitrary information and arbitrary objects. Is this surprising? First time you hear it, but not if you orient within this context of DNA read-write are getting better and better. Here's another example, Anika Bio. They're using synthetic DNA to basically do provenance tracking. Where did this thing come from? How's my food supply chain doing? If I have a whole bunch of lettuce and some of the lettuce has a pathogen that's causing people to get sick, do I have to recall all of it? What if I could spray different sequences at different points of collection such that I have finer granularity around the sourcing and logistics of where things are coming and going from such that I could more surgically only remove the 1% of the lettuce that's problematic. That's an interesting idea. Wonder how that's going. What changes might bioengineers realize via DNA? We've seen now that there are trends, meaning changes over time with respect to DNA read and write capacity. Given these trends, maybe you should start tracking them. Maybe you could have a little plot next to your desk at home or above your bed. What's the DNA trend? My prediction would be over your entire life, there are going to be ongoing changes and improvements to DNA read-write tools. I view DNA as the polymer of the century from a technology and economic perspective. If you're tracking these trends, then you can be not just a bioengineer, but a bio-not and position yourself to decide, just like Albie Ray Smith. When was the right time to do Pixar? I don't know what the Pixar's are going to be for bioengineering yet, but I know some somebody's going to figure them out and maybe it's going to be you. If you can follow these trends, it can help you decide what to do and when you want and what change you might want to make. I want to end with a little snippet. We've been talking about quantitative change. It's getting a little bit cheaper, a little bit more powerful over time, but sometimes there's qualitative change. It's much harder to think about qualitative change. The qualitative change I want to focus your attention on is what happens when you combine DNA sequencing and DNA synthesis. DNA sequencing lets me take an organism or a piece of DNA at some point in its history and turn it into digital information, the letters, ATCG, that I can act on through computers and computer networks. Sequencing lets me go from atoms to bits. Synthesis lets me go from bits to atoms. I can take that information, I can reinstantiate the genetic material, whether that goes into a living system or a library. When you put sequencing and synthesis together, the language is going to sound funny, but it's the simplest way of saying it. We're making genetic material and genetic information interconvertible or fungible. You can go from bits to atoms and atoms to bits and back and forth and back and forth. That's just shockingly new. Prior to these two tools coming together, all of life on earth exists like you see in this little sketch I made at the top, from one generation to the next. You came from your parents, I came from my parents. If you have kids, they'll come from you. And that's normal, that's natural. But suddenly, through DNA ReadWrite, we're creating a potential break in that lineage, that chain. It's a very profound, underlying, qualitative change that's opening up. I'll give you two more slides just to help you think about what I mean by qualitative change. I'll use an example of music first, and then we'll go back to bioengineering. So it used to be the only way to hear music was to have an instrument and to play it, like this gentleman is playing his interesting instrument here. Later on, we learned how to record music, and the movie here is showing a microscopic close-up of a vinyl record, and how you can store stereo signals in a V-shaped trough. You can see the needle going back and forth in the left and right channels. Later on, we figured out how to turn analog storage into digital storage, things like compact discs, and that's what's shown in the bottom right. And then suddenly, this thing called Napster happened, which let you take the digital files and move them around via the internet, so that you no longer needed to have the physical media. Now, Napster becomes other things like Spotify or Tidal or whatever's popular today. But it's in this fourth quadrant, this top right quadrant, where the qualitative change gets to be revealed. And suddenly, music is available anywhere in real-time streaming through the internet. It's like, huh. So let's end with this. Here we see a person relating to perfume. What is perfume? Perfume, where do we get perfume? Plants and other chemicals are collected and mixed together in a perfume factory, and the perfume is placed in a bottle, and then somebody buys the bottle and then dabs the perfume over themselves, depending on how they want to smell and when, and that's what perfume's all about. How does qualitative bioengineering change related to DNA read-write? How might that impact perfume? Just as one tiny example. Well, what if there was a website called iFumes? On the website, you could download DNA code for 99 cents a pop, and the DNA code was for the biosynthetic pathways making different molecules that smell in different ways, odorants. And you'd go to iFumes, you'd pay, you'd download the DNA code, you'd build that DNA, and then you'd slather that DNA on your skin, transfecting the microbes on your skin, your epidermal ecosystems, so that now they'd be reprogrammed to make living perfumes. That's an example, it's a fantastical example for today of what it might mean to navigate qualitative change associated with bioengineering. So hopefully there's a lot more for you to think about, and maybe start with like, what did he just say? Did he really mean it? By the way, I really meant it. So let's wrap up. Do you feel like you're happening to the future, or is the future happening to you? When was the last time someone or something just futured all over you, without asking your permission? Who was it? Was it Elon Musk? Did Elon Musk just future all over me today? I don't know. Right? But how do you feel about this? Second, how can you develop and use understanding of trends, technical trends or otherwise, to give yourself the option of happening to the future, positioning yourself as the waves are breaking? Where do you want to be? How good do you think bioengineers can get at reading and writing DNA? What do you think the DNA read-write tech of 2030, 2040, 2050, over your lifetime, what do you think it's going to look like? And like, as important, what's it going to feel like if you were using it? You can store information in DNA by converting bits and then to DNA. But as I mentioned in passing, you could just encode whatever information you want through some special codecs, you know, directly DNA without going through bits first. It might be music, might be a drawing, you know, like have fun with thinking about that and trying that out. Why might you, why might you skip the bits and just go right to the basics? Regardless, thinking back to the why DNA slide, remind yourself, like, why is DNA so ripe as a substrate for data storage if you're a librarian? Okay, that's it.