This week, we're going to go all the way from mutations and evolution to next generation genetically modified organisms, including food. So let's get started right away. We'll even touch upon things like variants and who knows what else. Mutation, bug, or feature? Of course we know about mutants, right? I read about this thing in the Marvel Universe. Mutants are humans born with a genetic trait called the... What? Why are mutants born with an X gene? Would you bioengineer people to have the X gene? What about mutants not in the Marvel Universe? How about the reality, the real universe? Well, in nature, you can think about what happens as an organism makes another organism, makes another when a parent has a child, has a grandchild, has a great grandchild, and so on and so forth. Whether this be Homo sapiens, a human, or a bacteria, or a plant, what happens when one generation begets or reproduces and makes the next generation, and so on and so forth. Underlying this process can be spontaneous changes in the genetic material, which we'll talk about in detail. The genetic material could be DNA for you and me, or it could be RNA, like the coronavirus. If there are spontaneous changes in the genetic material encoding the living systems, then maybe the living systems can change themselves. And so mutations are spontaneously or randomly arising changes in the genetic material encoding living systems. A lot of mutations, because they don't matter, at least not immediately, some mutations have no immediate impact on the so-called phenotype, the form or behavior of the so-mutated organism. Oftentimes you might refer to these mutations as silent, shh, silent mutations. They don't seem to do anything. But of course the genetic material is changing, so it might do something later. Other mutations have profound and obvious changes. Here's an example I found from a neat biology class. Got a cat on the left, looks like it's a lion, no, it's a tiger. It's got stripes, it's got orange fur. In the middle is a mutant, still got stripes, but the fur is no longer orange. Nothing has changed in the animal's genetic material, such that the pigmentation of the fur is different. On the far right, we see another mutant, it's albino. There's no stripes, no color of any form, right? So some mutations have obvious changes. That's in nature, but how about in bioengineering? Well, in bioengineering, if we're clever, we can create systems where there are random changes bioengineered into what the living system's doing. And then if we do that right, we might get very interesting tuning or engineering of the resulting properties of the living systems. It's kind of unbelievable how much you can do with this. I'll give you just one example here. Look at this incredibly colorful image. Believe it or not, you're looking at neurons in the hippocampus of a mouse brain. That's why I've got the brain, the cartoon character on the right. And scientists have put DNA into the individual neurons designed to produce different colors in different neurons, but what color any individual neuron makes is not hard-coded. It's not prescribed. It's the result of a random process where through clever bioengineering, there are spontaneous or random changes in the DNA at very high frequency as this brain is developing. And thus as a result, each individual neuron gets a different dosing of different colors and you get this beautiful image where you can clearly discriminate between one neuron and the next as the brain's wiring up. This is called a brain bow. And it's just such an amazing demonstration of how you can use clever bioengineering and random genetic process to produce diversity, in this case, the diversity of colors to help us see how the brain's wired up. And really, if you're excited about this, check out the URL down there and learn more about it. The brain bow. Okay, well, back to basics. Where do mutations come from in nature or stated differently? Like, why do they happen? They have to happen? I want to start exploring this question with the macroscopic. Let's imagine you went to a museum, you brought some paint and some canvas, and you wanted to copy a painting in the museum. It's a little bit strange, but maybe you could do it, like this person here. This person is looking at something and then through a physical process of painting, making a copy of the first painting. We can think about this and just say, well, what's going to happen here? Maybe we could say the following. Whenever one object is copied by a physical process, there's a chance that the resulting copy will not be exactly the same due to one or more random differences. You know, like trying to copy it, but maybe I couldn't figure out exactly how the hair was on the person in the first painting. I did my best, so maybe I couldn't decode the first painting. So even if I was a perfect painter, I wasn't quite sure what I was seeing. Or maybe I could perfectly interpret the first painting, but my hands were a little shaky. Oops, made a mistake on the ear. So whenever you have a physical process that's copying something, there's a chance, random chance that you might get a change in the offspring, if you will. I want to test you and test your thinking by giving you just a case study of copying. Okay, so let's take a look. Or take a listen, in this case. So here's a song that's a number one hit from the late 1960s in the United States in a genre called bubblegum pop. I don't know if I'd recommend it, but let's listen to the hit. I don't know if I'd recommend it, but let's listen to the hit. Now here's a copy of this song by Bob Farley and the Wailers, just a little bit after. So is the second song a mutation of the first song? Of course, oh, it's a cover song, right? The original and then a cover song. But going back to the preceding slide, is Bob Farley and the Wailers version, which I prefer, nothing against the original, but this sounds more interesting, is it a mutant? Think about that. For me, I'd say no, because the resulting copy is not produced via a random process. A mutant of the first song would be you're making the physical copy directly and maybe got a note wrong or something changed, but it wasn't this purposeful, conscious, intentional derivative or cover. So take care when things are getting copied. Sometimes they're mutants and sometimes they're just cover songs, right? So trick slide here, but think about it. Okay, let's bring this back to biology and bioengineering. Here we've got a whole slide full of A's, T's, C's, and G's. Can you guess what it is? How many letters are on here? One, two, three, four, five, six, 29,000, almost 30,000. It's amazing how many letters you can get on one slide. Turns out this is a DNA representation of SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus, which is normally the T's would be used because it's RNA, but this is the DNA version. Here's the whole genome. If you got infected with SARS-CoV-2, this is a thing that's reproducing inside of you at least an abstracted representation as the genetic sequence. I want you to, right now, start, get a piece of paper and quickly copy the sequence. Go. Are you done? Did you make any mistakes? Of course, it's impossible for you to physically copy it using Pencer, but somehow when we think about mutation in biology, at the core of it is random changes in nucleic acid sequences. I hope if you seriously confronted the challenge of quickly copy the sequence, that's what the molecules of life are going to have to do with perfection if we didn't want random changes, if we didn't want mutation. Hopefully, you're beginning to get a sense of how ridiculously difficult or challenging it's going to be to copy these strands of genetic material with zero random changes. Let's look at the molecules that actually copy the SARS-CoV-2 genome, at least a representation of it. This is something we've seen before in terms of structural biology. In this case, we're looking at what's called the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. Normally, when you think about copying of genetic material, we're thinking about copying of DNA, so you have a DNA polymerase, but some viruses have their genetic material stored as RNA, not DNA. To copy RNA, you need an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, which is a mouthful, I'll admit. What we're looking at here around the outside of this core barrel are the proteins that comprise the RNA-copying machinery that are going to replicate this entire sequence. Hopefully, if we wanted it to have no mutations, they're not going to make a single mistake when they copy all this sequence. Right down the middle of this, in red and blue, is a representation of an RNA being copied. Then we're just going to rotate the whole thing 90 degrees. Now you can see the RNA that's being copied, the template is in blue, and then the duplication or second copy of the genome is being made in red and coming out from right to left. How this machine is actually working, this is just a static image and all the atoms are kind of hidden away in these ribbon diagrams, but somehow this is the business. This is the molecular machine that's copying the virus genome that's causing the pandemic. Let's look at an example of a DNA-copying machine and see if we can develop a little bit more empathy for what must be happening inside a cell. Again, just on background, SARS copying itself is RNA copying RNA. This example, a beautiful animation from Drew Barry and colleagues, is a DNA copying DNA. What's shown here is a strand of DNA coming in on the left and then two strands of DNA proceeding off to the right. The spaceship-looking thing, of course it's a molecular complex, that's the set of molecules, the DNA polymerase, that's copying the DNA. Here's the business side of it, where you've got a single strand of DNA coming in and a double strand of DNA going out to the right. Right here, we're seeing the individual bases being copied somehow, an A being matched up with a T, a C with a G, a G with a C, a T with an A. You can get a sense of it, but of course this is super slowed down. In reality, all of this is happening in a human cell. Maybe it's moving at 50 letters a second. In a bacteria or virus, it could be 1,000 letters a second. For this to work, randomly the bases are appearing and the poor polymerase has to decide, I need a G, is that a G or a C? It can't look, it's somehow electrostatics in physics. Is this process going to be a perfect process? No. I can hardly copy anything when I'm thinking as hard as possible about it without making a mistake. How are these molecular systems going to copy millions of base pairs, tens of thousands of base pairs without making, it's just not going to happen. It's actually remarkable they're as accurate as they are. They might make a mistake one in 10,000, one in a million, one in a billion, depending on how much proofreading and error correction there is. All of this is done at the molecular level, but the key thing is this copying process, as good as it is, isn't going to be perfect. Because it's not perfect, there's going to be random mistakes throughout what's going on. What happens if a polymerase, a DNA polymerase or an RNA dependent RNA polymerase makes a mistake? Depends. A lot of the time it's silent, so it doesn't make an appearance on the broader stage. But if it has an impact, if it impacts phenotype, if it impacts what actually happens functionally at the limit, by the way, it's not if it makes a mistake, remember it's when a polymerase makes a random error. You don't know where in the sequence it's going to be, but it's going to be there randomly. So what happens? Well, it depends. At the limit, it's not silent. The opposite of it is like, it's on the news, right? And we've all been living through the consequences of these random mutations, some of which are not silent. And they have, in the case of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, significant impact on how the pandemic's progressing. Variants, you know, the Omicron variant, the Delta variant. This language we're seeing in the news is traceable back to the physical process of copying nucleic acids. And the fact that that copying process, as good as it is, is imperfect. And so we get spontaneous changes that result in mutations. And some of the mutations have significant consequences for how the virus infects. And that's a variant, right? So now hopefully you're a little bit more motivated. It's not just the X-Men, it's like, oh, it's the pandemic. You know, it's what evolution does. So let's see if we can make sense of this. And remember, we're practicing throughout the course, parsing the research literature. This one's going to be a challenging one, right? So let's look at the title first. This is a paper that came out in February of 2022. So this paper is 13 months old, right? SARS-CoV-2, okay. Omicron variant. I've heard Omicron. It's a variant. I guess that means it's a mutant. Well, it's a mutant that matters, so it's a variant. And then antibody evasion. Antibodies are part of the immune system. Evasion, something's evading part of the immune system. And cryo-EM, jargon, structure of spike protein ACE2 complex. Spike proteins are part of the virus particle. ACE2 is the part of your cells that normally would regulate blood pressure, I think. But it happens to be the part of the surface of your cell that the virus binds to and comes in on. It's so interesting. So now let's go to the abstract. The newly reported Omicron variant is poised to replace the Delta variant as the most prevalent SARS-CoV-2 strain variant across the world. Cryo-electron. Okay. So that's cryo-EM microscopy. Right. Got it. A microscope. A fancy microscope. Analyzing the structure or shape of the Omicron variant spike protein. So how the mutants cause the spike protein to have a different shape. An analysis of how the shape changes the complex with the human angiotensin-converting agent, aka ACE2. Again, the receptor that the virus binds to that's normally doing blood pressure stuff, but in this case it's how the virus gets into our cells. Reveals salt bridges. Sounds like I drive a car over a salt bridge. Can't be what that's about. Hydrogen bonds, mutated residues. Mutated residues. Ah, mutants are appearing. Good. Mutated residues, arginine-493, serine-496, arginine-498. Whoa. I told you this was going to be a hard abstract. I'm just going to stop here and I'm like, this looks interesting. A microscope is revealing how things are physically shaped in relation to each other and there's mutated residues. Things like serine-496. All right. We're going to come back to this, but I want to just pause and make sure everybody's following what's going on between the spike protein and this thing called ACE2. This is just a, not from this paper, but just on background, you know, what's the life cycle and how does SARS-CoV-2 work and transmit? You know, so if you're getting a SARS-CoV-2 particle coming into your body, on the virus particle itself, on the outside are these things called the spike proteins. And for the particle to do anything, those spike proteins have to interact with a specific molecule on the surface of some of your cells. This is called the receptor and the specific receptor that the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein interacts with is called ACE2 or ACE2, right? This thing I've been mentioning as something to do with regulating blood pressure, I guess. All right. So that's just what's going on. And if you had a mutant that is changing the structure of the spike protein, then you might expect it could change how the spike protein interacts with the receptor. And since a lot of the antibodies that your immune system might produce, you know, are basically trying to prevent this binding event, the antibodies are going to be interacting with the spike protein too. And so if the spike protein mutates, then an antibody that might be giving you immunity from infection, perhaps generated by a vaccine or a prior infection, that antibody might not recognize the mutated spike protein and a variant that can escape and cause reinfection. So in other words, your vaccine might not protect you from the latest variants. That's what it's all coming from, from the mutations. All right. So let's go back to this paper and we can find this figure in the paper and it's like, oh my gosh, this is complicated.