an answer to for at least the last 10 or 15 years. In 2012, the Gates Foundation started funding efforts to genetically engineer cereal crops to produce their own nitrogen. So cereal crops are things like wheat, barley, rye, rice, maize, and these are plants that cannot form root nodules. They cannot form those symbiotic associations with nitrogen-fixing bacteria, and so they are pretty reliant on synthetic fertilizers in order to get enough nitrogen in order to produce grain at the quantities that we're used to them producing at. Now, we could just stop applying nitrogen fertilizer to these plants, but we would drastically reduce the amount of food that we're able to produce globally, and so it would be, you know, a big problem for the human population if we did that. So another solution is just to figure out how can we modify these plants to be able to produce their own nitrogen. There's been some progress towards trying to do this. It's a really challenging goal. It's really hard to get cereal crops to fix their own nitrogen or to form associations with nitrogen-fixing bacteria. So scientists have taken on different approaches towards trying to get nitrogen-fixing cereals created. This effort is to try to get barley to associate with rhizobacteria, which is the type of bacteria that would form root nodules on legumes, on bean plants, but they don't talk to each other. Remember, the first step in forming a root nodule was a chemical communication between the bacteria and the plant root cells, and the barley plants just don't talk to the rhizobacteria correctly. They actually just don't make the right chemicals in order to attract the bacteria, and so these scientists have been able to engineer plants to produce a chemical that nitrogen-fixing bacteria recognize and respond to. Here's the chemical that they're producing, and on these plates below, you can see in black and white a little barley plant that has bacteria applied to them, and the bacteria are engineered to luminesce, to produce a little bit of light, when they detect this compound. Usually they would detect this compound and begin some of the nodule formation steps, but just as a visual signal of where they are in this process, the scientists also added the capacity for them to make light, and what you can see is that when the bacteria are put onto barley plants that have been engineered to produce this compound, they do in fact produce light, but when the bacteria are put onto wild type plants or unengineered plants, they do not, and so this is a nice demonstration that the plants have been successfully engineered to produce this compound, which is a good first step towards getting this kind of trans-kingdom signaling, the signaling between the plant and the bacteria, to happen between a plant variety that would not usually talk to this bacteria and the nitrogen fixer. So it's an exciting first step. There's obviously quite a long way to go, but I encourage you to kind of keep your eye out for stuff like this as, you know, over the next 10 years we hope that these types of solutions just mature and become even more kind of complex and close to the nitrogen fixation that's happening in legumes. Okay, an alternative approach is not to worry about root nodules, but just to make free-living nitrogen-fixing bacteria more productive. Remember there are some bacteria that just live on the surface or in the bulk, on the surface of roots or in bulk soil, and those do fix some nitrogen, and maybe if you just engineer them to fix a lot more nitrogen, then you don't need to form those really specialized root nodules, you can just get enough nitrogen being made by these free-living organisms for the plant to survive. So a pair of engineers at Stanford, this is Professor Beth Satley and her graduate student Tim Schnabel, were able to engineer a strain of Azospirillum to fix more nitrogen, and this is a free-living bacteria, but it doesn't produce a whole lot of nitrogen unless it itself needs nitrogen, and so they were able to kind of deregulate its nitrogen fixing. And they're hoping that they will have a product that is something farmers can buy that consists of a bunch of these engineered bacteria that are grown up in some sort of fermentation in a lab and then freeze-dried and delivered to farms where they are put out into fields. The bacteria would then revive, they would rehydrate, and they would start to replicate, and so they'd make copies of themselves and then start to fix nitrogen for the plant. So the company that Tim started is called Switch BioWorks, and this is their goal. It's a really exciting goal to see nitrogen fertilizer use be offset by this biological solution. They're not the first ones to have thought of something like this. Pivot Bio is a Bay Area company that is also looking to replace synthetic fertilizer with engineered bacteria. They have a slightly different approach to how they engineer the bacteria, but the end goal is very similar. Now they do have some data that show that their product, which is called Proven, is able to help plants grow better with less fertilizer. So you kind of offset some of the fertilizer with this Proven product, this bacterial-based product. But in Navasca field trials, which were released pretty recently, the Proven benefits are limited. It looks like adding the engineered bacteria didn't really help the plants grow any better, and so it's unclear exactly what happened. But one common thing with engineered bacteria is that they don't live for very long out in the environment. You can engineer bacteria in the lab to do some pretty amazing things, but as soon as those bacteria are put into a competitive environment where there are, you know, hundreds or thousands of microbes competing with your engineered bacteria for resources, then your engineered bacteria may not survive. It may not be able to continue to do things like fix nitrogen once they're out in the wild if they're having to continue to compete just to survive. So it would be nice to see in some of these trials measurements of how much bacteria were, you know, in the soil at the end of growing seasons, and to see these repeated. These were all done in Nebraska and all with corn, and so it would be nice to see some kind of other data for these types of products because, at least in the PivotBio team's trials, they did seem to work. So it's, you know, important for us to figure out, like, how all of these biotechnological solutions are working, how well they're working, and what kind of situations they're best for. Okay, one kind of off-the-wall solution is just to engineer the plants to self-fertilize by fixing their own nitrogen. So instead of figuring out how to get them to associate with bacteria more tightly to, like, form root nodules or how to get the free-living bacteria to fix more nitrogen, maybe just engineer the plant to produce nitrogen itself. Now that sounds like a good idea, except these nitrogen fixation pathways, the enzymes that fix nitrogen, are very complicated. Here are two examples of gene clusters from bacteria that encode for nitrogen-fixing enzymes, and each of these little arrows is a gene, and you can see that there are lots of them involved in this process, and so figuring out which ones you need to move into a plant in order to get the plant to fix nitrogen is not easy. People have taken some first steps at this and have been able to get some nitrogen-fixing enzyme components into plant cells and verify that they are functional. They've not yet gotten full nitrogen fixing to happen in plant cells. I think this is actually in yeast, so in eukaryotic cells, but they're on their way, and that's really exciting because it would be great to just have the plants fix nitrogen, and that could solve a lot of those nitrogen runoff problems too. If the plant is just making what it needs in terms of nitrogen to grow, then you would worry a lot less about there being too much in the field, and then that nitrogen getting into other ecosystems and disrupting them, so kind of cool. All right, so that was your crash course introduction to plant biotechnology and some sort of human nutrition. I want you to think about where the protein in your diet comes from. Can you access information about what the amino acid composition of the foods you really like to eat might look like, and can you tell, are you getting enough of the essential amino acids that your body needs to survive? I encourage you to kind of think closely about your diet and what you might change if you find that you're not getting the right amino acids for optimum performance. Do you view the invention of synthetic fertilizer as good or bad? We talked about some pretty significant benefits and some pretty significant drawbacks to this type of invention. I'd like to know what you think about it, and then what role did semi-dwarf plants play in the green revolution or in this massive increase in food production that happened in the mid-1900s, and then which biotechnological method of reducing synthetic fertilizer use are you most excited about? We talked about three different ones today. Maybe you're more excited about one than another, or maybe you have your own idea of how we can solve these synthetic fertilizer problems. Okay, see you in the next lecture.