Okay, now we're going to talk about next generation genetically modified organisms, and specifically this lecture is still about food. What is bioengineered food? In 2021, the US FDA started to require a bioengineering label on specific food products. That label might look something like this, where there's a circle and it says derived from bioengineering or bioengineered. There might also be something small on the back of your food products, maybe right next to the nutrition facts could be a small statement that says something like contains a bioengineered food ingredient. Now if you see these things on food in the grocery store, and I encourage you to check the next time you're there, or maybe to look in your own pantry and see do you have foods that are derived from bioengineering, I want you to think, what does that mean? Do you know what that means? According to the US FDA, a food that contains genetic material that has been modified through in vitro recombinant DNA techniques, and for which the modification could not otherwise be obtained through conventional breeding or found in nature is a bioengineered food. Now that's kind of a mouthful and so in this lecture we're going to break down what that means. We're going to talk about all the different ways that food crops can be improved and what counts as bioengineering, at least according to the US FDA. Okay, so here's sort of the overview. Crops are genetically modified in many different ways, and we're going to go through each of them and talk about sort of the benefits, disadvantages, and regulation related to each one. So the first crop improvement strategy that we're going to talk about is traditional breeding. This is crossing plants and then selecting offspring with desired traits. So if you have one plant that produces a lot of seeds and another that produces really big seeds, you might cross them together in order to get a plant that has a lot of really big seeds. This type of breeding approach is something that humans have been using for thousands of years. They've been observing crops with desirable phenotypes and crossing them together. And when they do this, you can affect just a few genes within the plant genome or you can change entire genomes, right? You're remixing the genetic material of the plants as you cross them together. There's no safety testing required for this type of crop improvement, and there's no regulations. You know, in this week, we've been talking about directed evolution, domestication, or the traditional breeding of crops to improve them is essentially a very long directed evolution experiment. And through this type of approach, people have really changed the crops that we know and love today. These are ancestors of watermelons. You can see how much of the inside of the watermelon is actually rind and how much of it is just devoted to seeds. And humans in time have selected over and over again for watermelons with more of that sweet pink flesh and fewer and fewer seeds and rinds to get the varieties that we have today. Same type of thing has happened for bananas. Here's a wild ancestor of banana, again, it's just chock full of seeds. And then maize, the wild ancestor of maize is actually something called teosinte, which has, you know, much smaller and harder seeds than the maize that we grow as sweet corn today. So this cool kind of very long directed evolution experiment is still something that we use today in order to try to improve crop varieties. There are advanced methods for breeding today that allow you to kind of genotype plants when they are small, either as seeds or seedlings in order to figure out if they maybe have the mutations from each parent that you're interested in. We sort of figured out for some traits, which genes are important for them, and then can direct breeding through genetics instead of waiting for the whole plant to grow up. But the point really is that you can just cross plants together and get improved varieties over time. Another strategy is mutagenesis, another way to get a new crop variety or to change it. And in mutagenesis, you expose seeds to chemicals or radiation in order to make DNA damages in order to acquire random changes in the genome. Chemicals and radiation can damage DNA and then as your cells or the cells of the plant try to repair those breaks in DNA, they may not repair them perfectly and you get changes in the genome. When you apply chemical or radiation mutagenesis, you usually affect hundreds to thousands of genes all at the same time. It's really difficult to just dial in the amount of radiation in order to get a single mutation in the backbone or in the genome of your plant. And often actually that's not that helpful because this is a random mutagenesis method. It would take a really long time if you were to apply low doses of radiation that change one DNA base at a time. Instead you want to change a bunch of things all at the same time to increase the likelihood that you change a phenotype that you care about. So ruby grapefruits are actually an example of plants that have been developed using chemical mutagenesis. Maybe it was chemical, maybe it was radiation mutagenesis. It doesn't matter. Basically farmers realized through one plant growing in a field that grapefruits were able to produce this ruby color. There was one plant that acquired a mutation just serendipitously and it made ruby red fruits. And the farmers who saw this thought that that would be a really valuable trait, that would make them stand apart from other grapefruit sellers in the market. And so they started applying mutagens to their grapefruit seeds in order to try to get more plants that also had this ruby phenotype. And so they were successful. There are actually several different varieties of grapefruit that now all have this kind of really sweet and beautiful ruby red color. This type of mutagenesis does not require safety testing and there's no regulation on it. So you may be eating lots of plants who have been developed using a mutagenesis strategy. There is a strategy called RNA interference. This is a method for turning off specific genes. The way it works is that you transform your plants. You introduce small RNAs into the plants that then bind to a gene of interest, to the RNA of the gene of interest, and then target that RNA for degradation. So double-stranded RNA inside of a plant cell is very unstable and often gets degraded really quickly. So if you introduce small RNAs that match a messenger RNA, then you can get it degraded. The example that I'm showing here is of a small RNA that targets virus RNA, so that the plant cells are protected from a viral pathogen. That's actually because papaya were engineered to be resistant to a ring spot virus using this method. Almost all of the papaya that you eat is of the genetically modified variety. They are producing a small RNA that targets this ring spot virus and prevents it from making the whole plant sick. When you introduce RNAs like this into the plant genome, you can affect one to tens of genes all at the same time. These short RNAs are short enough that it's possible that they would target several different genes in the plant genome, although often they are quite specific. There is safety testing required for this type of thing, and it's highly regulated, so this would count as a bioengineered food because there is no way of naturally getting these short RNAs into plant cells, so they would count as a recombinant DNA technology. There's straight-up transgenics. This is where you insert selected genes into the genome that are not RNAs. These small RNAs are one class of transgenic plants. We separated them out just to be able to talk about the papaya ring spot virus example, but in practice, these two things are quite similar. The most famous examples of genetically modified plants being made with a recombinant DNA method are the Roundup Ready or herbicide-tolerant plants that have a single herbicide-resistant gene overexpressed, and that makes the transgenic plants resistant to the herbicide, so you can spray this herbicide all over the field and your transgenic or genetically modified plants will still grow, but weeds and other things that you don't want to be growing won't. The other really famous examples are like Bt cotton and Bt corn. Bt stands for Bacillus thuringiensis. It's actually a type of soil bacterium that usually produces a small toxin that is only toxic to a larval stage of insect or like a wormy type of insect, and when you put the gene encoding this toxin into the plant genome, then the plants can produce this short peptide that kills like these cotton bollworms or other types of pests and protects the plant essentially from these predators, and so these are nice because then you don't have to spray the plants with any type of pesticide. Instead, the plant is producing a little bit of this soil bacteria's genes to prevent predation from pests. Okay, so this usually affects less than 10 genes, but it does require safety testing and is highly regulated because the US FDA again terms this type of modification of plants as a genetically modified organism. Okay, the last crop improvement strategy is gene editing. You can use proteins like CRISPR-Cas proteins in order to make really targeted deletions from the genome. The way CRISPR works is it's essentially a protein that likes to cut DNA that is targeted to specific DNA sequences using a short guide RNA, and when that guide RNA finds a region of the genome that it matches, then the Cas protein, Cas9 in this case, sits down and cuts the DNA there. After a cut is made, the cell usually tries to repair the DNA but will make deletions in trying to repair it. So this all is an example in tomato where the authors were trying to increase the amount of vitamin D that the tomato produced by deleting an enzyme in a biosynthetic pathway. Then in this case, they're deleting this DR2 enzyme, and by deleting this part of the pathway, they can increase flux through the pathway towards vitamin D. So interestingly, this type of deletion, even though it's highly designed, you do transform in or you deliver in this Cas9 protein and these guide RNAs, because you're only deleting portions of the genome, this is not regulated, at least in the United States. So there's no safety testing required and there's no regulation of it here. In Europe, it's a different story. This type of modification would still count as a genetically modified organism, and there these would all be prohibited from sale. So sort of interesting, there is a spectrum of methods by which you can modify plants, and those methods are all regulated somewhat differently. Now how do you get DNA into plants? This is a question that I would have had if I were in your shoes, like, okay, that sounds interesting, but like, how do you actually get DNA into plants? The answer to this question actually lies at the center of this crown gall tumor. Inside of this kind of weird plant tumor is actually a little bacterium. It's a bacteria called Agrobacterium tumifacens, and this bacteria is kind of amazing. It actually takes a portion of its genome and pumps it into the plant cells. So this kind of red region down here, excuse me, gets copied and then moved into the plant cell. The bacteria actually makes this little protein-like needle to poke a plant cell, and then through the middle of this needle, they pump in DNA and they pump in some proteins. These proteins help shuttle the DNA into the nucleus, and then once the DNA from the bacteria gets into the nucleus, it actually integrates itself into the plant's genome. Now Agrobacterium usually delivers instructions to the plant cell to deprogram it. So it will tell it, okay, stop being a, like a bark cell, for example, stop being a, you know, vascular cell inside of the middle of a plant stem. Instead, you should just turn into a sugar factory, make me a lot of sugar. And the plant cell doesn't necessarily know that this DNA came from a bacterium, and so it will start expressing the genes encoded on that DNA, and it will turn itself into a sugar factory that replicates over and over and over again and forms this big kind of tumor-like structure. So in the middle here, you can see all of these like very clever, very happy bacteria eating lots of plant sugars. Okay, but you can actually use Agrobacterium to deliver DNA into plant cells in order to make transgenic plants. So we can take that little segment of DNA that usually gets transferred, and we can recode it. We can actually remove the genes that tell the plant to become a little sugar producing factory, and we can put in instructions for other things like produce a fluorescent protein or, you know, produce a BT toxin, something like that. One of the easiest ways to actually get transgenic plants is to take the plants and then dip the flowers into a solution of Agrobacterium. In this solution of Agrobacterium, the bacteria will donate DNA or conjugate DNA into the egg cells within the flower. Those egg cells will then get fertilized by pollen and become seeds, develop into seeds, and some of those seeds will then be transgenic. They'll then carry the what's called tDNA or transferred DNA that was given to it by the bacteria. So here's just examples of what the seeds of this plant, which is Arabidopsis thaliana, look like under white light. And then you can see we delivered into them this red fluorescent protein, and the seeds then glow when they have that red fluorescent protein. OK, but floral dip, this method does not work on all plants. Arabidopsis thaliana, this model plant, makes tens of thousands of seeds. Within just like a single pot of plants. But something like tomato makes maybe hundreds of seeds, maybe less per plant. And so if you're not able to deliver DNA efficiently into each egg cell, then the likelihood you would get transformed seeds is pretty low. There's also issues with just like the shape of the flower and the access that the bacteria have to the egg cells within the flower. And so it seems to not work in every plant variety. So what do you do? How do you make a transgenic tomato if you can't just dip the tomato flowers into a solution of bacteria? Well, you can take advantage of the fact that plant cells can usually de-differentiate into what's called callus. So here's a little piece of a leaf that has been treated with hormones that cause some of the leaf cells to de-differentiate into callus. So this callus are basically like undifferentiated plant cells. You can think of them sort of like plant stem cells, which you can then treat with a different series of hormones to get this callus to re-differentiate into leaves and then re-differentiate or produce roots. And so you can go from callus undifferentiated cells into whole plants. Now, why is that useful? Well, you can take callus and you can incubate it with agrobacterium and agrobacterium will again conjugate DNA into the plant cells that it comes into contact with. Then you can take that callus and you can put it onto selective plates. So here, if the agrobacterium is delivering DNA that encodes for your genes of interest, maybe your fluorescent proteins, maybe something else, it may also encode for an herbicide resistance gene or another selectable marker. And you can put the callus onto plates that contain the herbicide and only the ones that are transgenic, only the calli that have received DNA from agrobacterium will continue to grow. Everything else will turn sort of black and die. But those ones that grew, you know that they contain DNA from the agrobacterium. You can then take that callus and you can put it onto new media plates, onto other plant hormones to start to get shoots and then roots to form and you can actually regenerate a whole plant. So that's the process by which people make transgenic plants. You can, instead of using agrobacterium, use something called a gene gun to inject little gold particles that are covered in DNA into the cells of the plant and then do the same type of selection and regeneration methods. It's not as popular because these gene guns are quite expensive.