and usually you end up with many, many copies of your transgenes inside each plant cell. And so people don't like that because you have a little bit less control using a gene gun than you do with the agrobacterium. You can also deliver DNA into plants using carbon nanotubes. So there's like a little tiny tube of carbon that you can attach DNA onto and then deliver into plant cells just using very little amount of force. You can get these things to permeate plant cells and then the cells will express fluorescent protein. So here's a GFP in four different plant varieties after having it delivered with these little carbon nanotubes. So that's kind of fun and exciting. One of my favorite methods for producing transgenic plants is really new. I would say it's not all that widely used yet but it's an exciting idea that you might be able to get plant transformation without having to go through this regeneration step because it's actually at this step where the transformation of many plants fails. You may be able to get callus that's resistant showing that you got your DNA into the plant cells but you might not be able to get new shoots or roots to form because you don't have exactly the right conditions. And then you can never make these transgenic plants. So if you can avoid that regeneration step then you might be able to make transgenic plants of different varieties or the very least you wouldn't require so much specialized equipment to put the callus into exactly the right conditions in order to get the transgenic plants you want. Okay, so sorry, this is a picture of a plant's meristem. This is the portion of the plant that is actively growing. It is the part of it that will produce flowers and seeds. If you are to cut it off the plant would determine a different location to have a new meristem grow. It will basically not like that you have cut it off and it will try again. If you prune things, this is often what you're doing. You're cutting off this meristem. Now there were some authors, some scientists at the University of Minnesota who figured out that if you cut off the meristem then deliver a agrobacterium like which conjugates DNA into the cells along with a couple of developmental regulators some proteins that stimulate meristem development. You can actually get a new meristem to form that contains your edited genomic DNA. So here the authors were trying to, they delivered DNA encoding Cas9 that CRISPR-Cas system targeting phytoene desaturase which is an enzyme that's important for chlorophyll development. And if you knock it out, you get these really white plants. And so what they showed is that, yeah you can cut off the meristem and then new shoots will form that are edited and you can collect seeds from them and those seeds will be edited and you can make new modified plants without having to go through the tissue culture. So I thought this was really fun and I wanted to share with you how that was done. But where is all of this leading? I promised you that we would talk about the next generation of bioengineered or GMO plants. And what I think is that these plants will have more precise control over gene expression for more nuanced phenotypes. So the first generation of GMO plants had single genes expressed through the entire plant. So this might be that BT gene expressed in every cell within the plant in order to make the entire plant resistant to the insects that were trying to eat it or it might be the herbicide resistance gene expressed in every cell within the plant in order to get the whole plant resistant to that herbicide. And that's great for features like pest resistance or herbicide tolerance. But I think the next generation of plants is going to have genetic programs introduced to them to control gene expression in very specific cell types at very specific times in development. And I think that people are going to be doing this in order to make stress resilient crop varieties. The new challenge is really to see if we can grow crops in increasingly hostile climates and being able to tune the activity or change the activity of specific parts of the plant can be really important for that. You don't need the whole plant to start like, okay. So if there's drought, for example, you might want the root system to elongate to start getting deeper. And that might allow it to reach water in layers of soil that have not yet dried out. But you want that only to happen in the root systems. The plant is devoting resources to its root system to get it to elongate. If you have that elongation program running, for example, in the above ground portion of the plant too, now you have two things that are fighting each other, right? The shoot system's trying to grow and the root system is trying to grow and maybe there won't be enough resources for both to be able to do that. And you'll never reach the water in those deeper layers of soil during the drought. So it would be great to be able to control gene expression in specific portions of the plant to really do some kind of fine tuning of plant resilience. And we're starting to get the capacity to be able to do this. This is an example from my lab, just showing you how precise control over spatial patterns of gene expression across a plant can be important for engineering specific features of a plant. So what you're looking at are three different Arabidopsis plants. Arabidopsis is our model system. It's a really small and easy to work with plant and it's easy to transform. A wild type or unmodified Arabidopsis has a long primary root that grows down in the direction of gravity. All these root branches that also grow down in the direction of gravity. And if you were to zoom in on this root system, you'd see that it's covered in these tiny root hairs, which are really important for water and nutrient acquisition. Now, if you express a mutant developmental regulator from a promoter that's active in lots of different cell types throughout the plant, you can change the development of the plant pretty severely. So this engineered plant has no lateral roots. It also has a shorter primary root. That primary root has a hard time sensing gravity, which you can tell because it no longer grows straight down. It doesn't have any root hairs and it's got several structural changes in the shoot as well. And one of the reasons that there are all these different impacts is because this gene is expressed in all these different tissues throughout the plant. Now, if we take this same gene and we only express it in one cell type in these what's called xylem pole paracycle cells, these specific cell types within the plant root system, then we can make a targeted change in the plant's structure. So here the plant does not produce any lateral roots, but it's otherwise identical to the wild type plant. So with this precise control over gene expression, we can make a precise change in the structure of the plant. We can actually take it one step farther than that and tune the number of root branches that the plants make. So with different synthetic genetic systems, with different gene expression levels, essentially in a tissue specific manner, we can control the density of root branches. And now we're wondering, okay, can we tune root structure for optimal growth in a specific environment? So we're not the only people by any stretch who work on this type of precise plant genetic engineering, and we're excited to see where it goes. After this lesson, I'd like you to think about the USDA, or sorry, the FDA's definition of a bioengineered plant or a genetically modified organism. Do you think that they're drawing the line in the right place? Do you think it makes sense to have regulation that's based on the process by which you have developed an improved crop variety? Or is there some other metric that you would prefer to see labels on or about on your food in the grocery store? Do you look for GMO or non-GMO labels when purchasing food? Why or why not? Did anything surprise you about the way transgenic plants are created? And then would you feel differently about GMO plants created to withstand climate change versus those engineered to produce pesticide? Or are those both the same to you? Is a GMO always a GMO or does it matter kind of what the purpose was for producing that plant? I would love to know what you think of these GMOs. And if you feel like sharing your answer to these questions with me, I'd love to get an email from you. Hope you enjoy the rest of the week. Bye.