Otherwise, the living cell is going to get blown up when it's in a vacuum. So how do I get a non-destructive image? And the other thing I didn't talk about is this electron beam that's coming in. That's a form of energy. And it's basically going to be cooking or damaging the sample. And so I've got to be careful about how much energy I'm putting into the sample. Otherwise, I'll destroy it as I'm trying to see it. And so I'd like to have an affordable microscope like this. I'd like it to be non-destructive, doesn't require freezing, doesn't use too much energy. And I want to see this living thing. And also, if you remember from our diffusion conversations, these molecules, when they're moving, we know how fast they're moving. The time between molecular collisions is about a nanosecond, which means I need a non-destructive microscope with this level of resolution that's observing the entire cell with gigahertz frequencies, like a billion times a second. So give me that. Now, if you give me that, now we're talking. Now we're bioengineering. But of course, that type of microscope doesn't exist yet. Parts of it may be physically impossible to make. You should talk to your physics friends. Hey, could you give me a cryo-electron tomographic microscope that's got gigahertz sampling rates and is non-destructive? And they're just going to go, what? But keep asking that. What do I mean by this? I want to zoom out for a second. One of the unique and incredible things about 21st century bioengineering is it's an emerging engineering discipline, which means, what do we mean by emerging? We have an opportunity to advance the discipline, not just by doing useful things for patients and the planet, but also by improving our tools, making better tools for bioengineering. Ever better tools and approaches are essential to advancing bioengineering. So this type of work in and of itself, tool development, tool improvement, is part of bioengineering. What am I talking about? Well, on the middle of the slide, you see a simple schematic, design, build, test. No matter what type of engineer you might be, you'd be a mechanical engineer making a car, or a civil engineer making a bridge, or a chemical engineer making a refinery, or an electrical engineer making a computer, you name it. No matter what type of engineer you are, once you've decided you know what you want to make, you've got to design the system, then you've got to build the system, and then you've got to test the system. Is it working? When we talk about making better tools, we're talking about improving the ability to design, build, test. And any improvement you make in this cycle is just going to have a sustained impact on the engineering workflows. Like a good engineer is able to make a useful system that people can rely on. A great engineer makes engineering easier. And one of the ways you make engineering easier for everybody is you improve the tools. So we've already talked about in this class a type of tool called DNA synthesis. Well, that's an improvement because it could allow you to accelerate the step from design to build. We've talked about the idea of testing, and measurement, and standards. We've talked about the idea of abstraction for managing complexity. These are, over the last 20 years, types of categories of improvements. But more simply and abstractly, better tools for measurement, better tools for seeing, better microscopes, better bioengineering, better tools for modeling, representing cells, representing molecules, better bioengineering, better tools for making, better DNA synthesis, better tissue printing, which we'll get to, better bioengineering. So I just want to pause and zoom out and talk about this particular aspect of 21st century bioengineering, which is 21st century tools. And the culture that celebrates, and supports, and rewards tool developers. You're probably now thinking I sound like a broken record on this topic. The reason is it's very difficult in bioengineering to work on improving tools. It's not that it's technically difficult to make better tools. It's that it's culturally difficult to focus attention on making better tools. Because I bet every one of you is first interested in bioengineering, not from a tool perspective, but because you care about somebody who's sick, or you care about an endangered species, or climate change, or something wrong with the world. And you want to solve a problem that's an immediate problem, and it's totally valid and important. I love that connection. Never give that up. But bioengineering is so powerful for solving these problems. It means that bioengineers tend to be exclusively focused on solving the problems right now. And it's very difficult to get attention and support So you know what? Instead of solving this disease, I'd like to make it easier for all disease to be solved. And to do that, I need to work on tools. Do you see what I mean? So foundational science and foundational tool development is very tricky to protect and celebrate as an activity. That's why I'm spending a little bit more time than usual on this one slide. Hopefully you get it. Now, to wrap up this, I want to transition back to light microscopy and talk a little bit about how tools are not the same. And I'm using funny language, like tools are not tools. What I mean by that is it depends on the form that the tool takes. The particular form that a tool takes impacts who can use the tool where for what purpose. Here's an example in the 1960s, 1970s of a computer, an IBM mainframe computer, an industrial computer. The people who could use this computer were people who could afford computers in big rooms. And certain people could do that. Shortly thereafter, around the same time, a different type of computer showed up. The personal computer, just across the creek from where I'm recording this lecture, Menlo Park. It's still a computer, but it's not the same thing. A computer is not a computer. It depends on the form of the computer. What's interesting here is that the personal computer as a revolution is not a revolution in the physics of transistors. It's a revolution because of the word personal. It changed who could compute where for what purpose. Tools are not tools. A computer is not a computer. A microscope is not a microscope. A DNA sequencer is not a DNA sequencer, and so on. It depends on who can do it where for what purpose. What do I mean by that? A microscope is not a microscope. You know, what if a microscope, instead of costing a million dollars, costs $1? Instead of being this fancy instrument in a room, what if it was paper? What if you could step on it? What if you could use it as a bookmark? What if everybody had a microscope? A personal microscope. Well, guess what? Here it is. Well, guess what? Here it is. The Foldscope. The Foldscope is an origami microscope. And each of you will get one, and you'll have to build it. And then you get to use it. Now, this microscope is an optical microscope. And so visible light will be the source of radiation that you use to see things. And so that means the lowest wavelength is gonna be about 400 nanometers, right? So you'll be able to see things on the order of a micron, a little bit less than a micron, and a little bit bigger than that. This is a tool within the context of the P-SET we'll encourage you to use to help you understand yourself. We're gonna send you out into the world to look for biological things. And by doing that, you'll have some choices to make about what types of things you're looking for and why. It gives you experience with thinking about tools and improving tools. By going out and looking at biology outside of a laboratory, we're gonna encourage you to think about nature and natural biodiversity and all the life that pre-exists us on Earth. As bioengineers, it's incredibly important to have empathy for the planet and the life that we inherit, so to speak. It's not ours, but it's arrived before us. What do I mean by that? You know, in computer science, all of computer science has been invented in the last century or so. The software that's on GitHub, all the code, it's like a year to a decade to a couple decades old. And I'm talking about biocode. If I'm talking about DNA code found on Earth, oh, you know, that's like a million years old, a billion years old, right? So it's like back to nature, like, whoa. One of the amazing things about bioengineering is we're encountering this evolved code base. And then of course, hashtag bioquality. What if everybody had a microscope? The Foldscope is an invention of Stanford bioengineer Manu Prakash and his team. And it's so interesting in and of itself, I'd encourage you to take a look at Manu's website and see what's going on there and why they're doing it. Okay, so to wrap up, here are some questions to think about. What is resolution with respect to seeing? What determines the resolution limit of what you can observe? How could microscopes be made better? I gave you my perspective with respect to cryo-electron tomography. What do you think? I love this question. I still wrestle with this question all the time. At the molecular to cellular scale, is biology complicated only because we can't see it easily? Remember that idea of like a cell made as big as a building? If we just see what's going on and observe everything, like suddenly it would just make sense and we'd be bioengineering like, ta-da, it's all working really well. Or is biology at this scale molecules making cells? Is it somehow intrinsically complicated? Even when we could see it with perfect resolution, with perfect sampling rates. Even if you gave me a camcorder, video recorder that let me see how molecules are making cells with like perfect, perfect resolution, perfect. Would it still be complicated? I'm not so sure, honestly. I think it might actually not be that complicated. But what do you think? Thus, why is developing better tools important for bioengineering? And also, why is it hard? Why is it hard to organize resources to make better tools? If you go to your local, here's an idea. Write the person in your district for the US House of Representatives and say, I think it's important for making better tools for bioengineering and here's why. And see what they write back. Why is it hard to make that argument? Last question, wherever you are, look at different forms of technology. Maybe it's a screwdriver, maybe it's a computer, maybe it's a bicycle, maybe it's a car, maybe it's a food processor, a microwave, or an oven, or a stove, or a refrigerator. Like what are some examples of different forms of technology? Challenge yourself to see, a refrigerator is not a refrigerator, it depends on the refrigerator. A bicycle is not a bicycle, it depends on the bicycle. Start to see technology not only as a label, but from the perspective of who can use it where for what purpose. And if you can see that extra dimensionality of technology, you'll be so equipped to understand how different forms of bioengineering tools will impact who gets to be a bioengineer. Thanks so much, can't wait until next time.