We're going to talk about biodiversity, species loss, and bioengineering. So far in the course, we've mostly been motivated not just by learning about living matter and bioengineering, but the applications, and primarily people, health, or medicine. Truly a profound area that motivates bioengineering learning and practice. It turns out, though, the molecules of life, they don't really care what the use is. Maybe if we got good at bioengineering proteins, we could make medicines not only for people, but the planet. So let's think about the health of the planet, what we call planet health. And one, as we'll learn, dimension of planet health is how is the rest of life on Earth beyond Homo sapiens doing? So that's what this set of slides is about. Let's get going. For example, here's a creature commonly known as the horseshoe crab. You can find these in the Atlantic Ocean, parts of the Pacific Ocean, elsewhere on Earth. This species is thought to not have changed very much. For almost half a billion years, it's, quote, older than the dinosaurs, and shows up on the beaches every now and then. Such an interesting creature. In nature, living things are related to one another, the web of life. And so here we see a horseshoe crab in relation to the red knots, a bird that migrates. If you look at the world map down below in the bottom right, this bird is migrating and oftentimes it'll stop and feed on what's available, including things related to the horseshoe crab. So that's a relationship between species. Let's ask a more personal question. What's the relationship between our species, Homo sapiens, and Limulus polyphemus, the horseshoe crab? Here's a photograph from the early 20th century in Delaware Bay, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, that part of the eastern seaboard of the United States. And you can see that the fellows here are stacking up lots and lots and lots and lots and lots and lots of horseshoe crabs, and then taking them away on trolley carts or train cars. It looks like they're using this for fertilizer, so you could do farming. What's this going to do to the horseshoe crab? It's going to reduce the population of horseshoe crabs. Now to make this story more interesting, I have to introduce something related to people health. It turns out that planet health and people health are going to be connected. So even if you care about medicine and health and only people, you end up needing to care about nature. So check this out. There's in human medicine an issue where you get a fever, and one type of fever is derived from a pyrogen, something that generates pyro, you know, pyromania, pyrogen, a fever-causing agent. A type of pyrogen, one type is an endotoxin, which is part of a bacteria. And so if you get a bacterial infection, you might get a fever in part because you might have endotoxins or pyrogens. In medicine, not only is that an issue, but if we use bioengineering to make medicines, then we might want to make sure we're purifying our medicines from any endotoxins. Or if we have something that is being made to be injected into people, it could even just be a syringe with a needle, or it could be a saline solution. We want to make sure that there's no endotoxins in those things either, right? Because if there's an endotoxin, then a person might be very sensitive to that, get a fever or worse. All right, so just on background, there's endotoxins, some endotoxins are derived from certain types of bacteria. And so we have to make sure anything we're using in medicine, you know, doesn't have an endotoxin associated with it. Well, what's this got to do with the horseshoe crab? All right, thanks for your patience. We want to make sure the things that we're putting in the people in medicine don't have pyrogens or endotoxins. It used to be that the way you'd figure this out is you'd take a little bit of your injectable, and not all of it, right, and you'd test it on rabbits. And so you'd have these poor rabbits in a situation like this, and you'd give them an injection of what you wanted to see whether it had an endotoxin or not. And if the rabbit got a fever or worse, you're like, oh, no, no, that's not safe to put in humans. So it's called the rabbit pyrogen test, or you still haven't gotten back to the horseshoe crab. Well, this fellow, Jack Levin, in the 1960s, was studying the blood of horseshoe crabs. And horseshoe crabs, they have to worry about infections, too. And so it turns out they don't have a human immune system. They have their own sort of way of dealing with microbial infections, obviously. And it has to do with something in their blood. And within their blood, they have the capacity to aggregate or coagulate around anything that might be a bacteria or related to bacteria like an endotoxin. And Jack and colleagues figured out that if you extracted this factor found in horseshoe crab blood, instead of taking a sample of your vaccine or saline solution and injecting it into rabbits, you could just mix it up with this horseshoe crab blood extract and see whether or not you got this coagulation or observable property. And so this becomes known as the Limulus test, Limulus for the horseshoe crab, and a test, a way of determining whether or not IV fluids or pacemakers or injectable drugs have endotoxins in them. All right, so anything going into a human patient needs to be tested to make sure it doesn't have endotoxins. And we're going to use horseshoe crab blood to do this test, the Limulus test. Where's the horseshoe crab blood come from? Remember that photograph of fertilizers, it's coming from the horseshoe crabs. And so, for example, there are harvesting facilities, this one is in South Carolina, where you can see the horseshoe crabs, they've been captured through fishing or harvesting from the ocean, and some of their blood is being removed. Their blood's blue, again, I guess the blood that's red has iron in it, but blue is going to have copper in it, that's pretty cool. And the horseshoe crabs are still alive, they have some of their blood drained, it's collected in these bottles, and you just see the statistics, half a million animals collected a year. Don't take all their blood because they die, take a third to a half. This blood is worth $60,000 a gallon, like 10,000 times more valuable than milk. And how would you do if somebody took a third of your blood, or you lost a third of your blood? You might die, right? And so not all the animals survive this process, there's a significant mortality rate. This is also that we have medicines that are safe to inject. What's the impact of this on the population of horseshoe crabs? It's threatening their existence. So on the right, you can see a little schematic, and it's got this interesting notation in the bottom. What's the conservation status of this species, the Atlantic Ocean horseshoe crab? The further to the right on the scale it is, the less worried we are about this organism going extinct. All the way to the left, the organism is extinct. What does extinct mean? It's not found alive on planet Earth anymore. Like the passenger pigeon went extinct, the dodo went extinct, the dinosaurs went extinct. That's what's on the left. And so anything moving towards the left is at risk of being increasingly threatened, vulnerable, becoming extinct. And so this one looks like it's not too bad, but it's threatened. The more we're using medicines, the more we're going to have to collect horseshoe crabs to get their blood, and so it's probably trending to the left. Here's another way of looking at that, conservation status. So we just go back to the horseshoe crab again, it's VU, or vulnerable. And so it's like heading towards extinction. I'm using the example of the horseshoe crabs, it's just so amazing. But obviously there's many species on the planet, and our relationship, Homo sapiens' relationship with the rest of life is just increasingly depleting natural stocks or changing what's going on. And so there's significant threats to natural biodiversity or straight up extinction induced by human beings. We'll have more to say about that in a minute. One of the places you can learn about this is an organization. When I started out bioengineering, I didn't know about this organization. It had been around, I just never heard about it because as a bioengineer, I only knew about people health and the National Institutes of Health and going to the doctor and trying to help medicine be better. But there's a whole other set of things going on related to planet health. And one of the groups that works on this quite a lot is called the IUCN, or the International Union for the Conservation of Nature. And if you go to their website, they maintain something called the Red List. The Red List is basically the endangered species list for not just the United States, but for Earth. And so I encourage you to go to this and take a look and see which ones you like and what's going on with it. They represent that almost 40,000 species are threatened with extinction. And you can see how it's distributed. We haven't seen all the species, so there's more species threatened with extinction. These are just the ones we know about. The IUCN is a very interesting organization, it turns out. They're 70-some years old. They're based in Switzerland. They have 1,400 members, but the members aren't people. The members are organizations. So they're an organization of organizations. So a nation could be a member of the IUCN. Or a civil society organization, not-for-profit, could be a member of the IUCN. What's also very interesting is the IUCN maintains a permanent observer status with the United Nations in New York. So you think about who's representing what country in the United Nations, and then suddenly the IUCN shows up and is like, we're representing nature? Isn't that such an interesting organization? I was able to travel to Switzerland, go east of Geneva on the train, and visit their headquarters in a town called Galande. And within their headquarters, you can see their library. And although their Red List of Endangered Species is on the internet now, if you actually visit, the Red List historically was kept track of on a card catalog, like those old library card catalog things. And I have to share with you how it felt when I pulled out the drawer and would start to thumb through the catalog of species and how the species were doing. And it had been typed out on a manual typewriter, you know, species name found in this part of the world, and it's endangered, or then endangered got crossed out and somebody typed extinct. And it was such a profound heaviness, because it forced me to understand that somebody who cared so much about these creatures to make such a card catalog in the first place, because they love these creatures, and then to have to come back and type in all capital letters on the typewriter extinct. It's just a shockingly profound experience. Well, let's think about what's going on a little bit more systematically from an engineer's perspective, from a bioengineer's perspective. So here's a representation of the population of Homo sapiens on Earth. By the way, this slide, which I'm borrowing, you know, from a corporation, says population of the Earth. We Homo sapiens love Homo sapiens so much that we don't even bother to say, like, population of humans on the Earth. It's just population of the Earth. So going back 300 years, and, you know, like, number of Homo sapiens is 2 billion around 1927, and then it's just clocking up, three and a half billion in 1970 when I'm born. And so there's like over twice as many Homo sapiens as when I was born. That's interesting. On the left of this plot, I'm showing some examples of photographs from around Stanford. So the left one on the bottom is Redwood City Lumber Company, you know, 1870, 1880 or thereabouts. There's a town very near Stanford, California called Redwood City, and it was given that name because that's where, once you cut down the redwood trees and turn that into lumber for construction, you'd ship it on boats, right, out into the San Francisco Bay to get to where it needed to be. So that's why it's called Redwood City. We're cutting down redwood trees. The symbol, the animal on the California state flag is the California grizzly bear. That animal was last seen in the wild in California in 1924, extinct in California in the wild. The engineering school at Stanford, where I work, we were started just the next year. We didn't go up Sand Hill Road to raise venture capital to start an internet company. You went up Sand Hill Road to go into woods to cut down redwood trees, right? So that's what engineering was about. In a way, that's what engineering is still about. It's like making things that insulate and protect people from the vagaries of nature. And ever since then, a lot more of us, right, because engineering in that role has been very successful. But what's it doing to everything else? Well, everything that's not humans is having a different set of circumstances, right? Here's George the snail, the last of his species, dead at 14. Now it's extinct. That was 2019. We see this is happening over and over and over again. So here's an article from colleagues at Stanford thinking about the environmental sciences. The title of this article reads, Accelerated Modern Human Induced Species Losses, Entering the Sixth Mass Extinction. By sixth mass extinction, you know, they're talking about through the entire history of life on earth, there have been five previous times where most of life went extinct. And those were not caused by human beings, like the asteroid, then the dinosaurs going extinct, like that's one of the mass extinctions. But there's a sixth extinction, they argue. They write, since 1900 alone, 69 mammal species are believed to have gone extinct, along with about 400 other vertebrates. Evidence for species lost among other types of creatures is more difficult to come by, but we don't think it's doing better. And then why is this happening? Well, we're changing habitat, more land being used not for forest or jungle, but for farming. We're having invasive species show up that eat all the natural species. Industrialization and carbon emissions are changing the environment. Some of the things we're doing release toxins that don't just harm us, harm other things. Let's look at this a little bit more. So here's an example of a palm oil plantation. You can see in the middle of the slide, the biology looks very regular. These are oil palms, and they're used to make palm oil, which goes into food. If you have pancake mix from the supermarket, check out the ingredient list, you'll see palm oil. It's very useful for making nice pancakes. Also goes into many other consumer products. Well, to grow palm oil via oil palms, we've got to get rid of everything else that's growing there, this forest or jungle. Now think about all the other things that live here, and when you get rid of that environment, how many of them are going to live in the oil palms? Not as many. That might be orangutans and other creatures, as this is what we mean by changing land use, loss of habitat. What do we mean by invasive species? Here is a tree snake that used to not be on the island of Guam, and then through shipping and other sorts of human activities, suddenly it's there. And so it's going to eat the birds on Guam and other things that were native to Guam. If we think about carbon emissions and industrialization, that leads us to changes in the acidification of the ocean that causes bleaching of coral systems. Over 90% of the Great Barrier Reef in Australia is suffering from bleaching, says this story. More abstractly, we can quantify this, and remember I was saying the human population doubled between 1970 and today, approximately. It's more than doubled now, three and a half to eight billion. Here's one index of natural biodiversity, all the other human things, and it's gone from a value, a scaled value of one, to about half. So stated differently, over my lifetime, the population of Homo sapiens has doubled, and the biodiversity of everything else has gone down by half. And there's definitely correlation, but from the preceding slides, we can see there's some causation as well. And wait, it's getting worse. For example, if you have a coronavirus pandemic that shuts down tourism, then maybe people who don't have other ways of earning a livelihood have to kill the things that the tourists would come, but there's no tourists coming because they're on lockdown. So let's just kill the endangered animals to get their rhino horns. Let's just pause. What do you think? Should bioengineers care about natural biodiversity? Should bioengineers care about planet health? Well, hopefully you already have some examples. If we didn't have horseshoe crabs, we wouldn't be able to test for endotoxins without hurting rabbits, so it'd be good to keep the horseshoe crabs around, right? But is that the only reason, or are there other reasons? And I really want to encourage you to wrestle with this question. One of my answers is every natural creature, every lineage on earth, every beautiful thing that predates us and exists, it's made of molecules, and molecules are gizmos. And maybe some of those gizmos are useful for bioengineering. Now, that's a utility-based argument. I could give you a moral argument, but just like any bioengineer who actually wants to build with biology, who doesn't understand that each natural creature is a true organism.