WEEK 1 WEDNESDAY LECTURE 2

Welcome everybody to Wednesday and we're gonna get right into it. We've got three different activities to do in class today, so I'll start with a quick quick screen share to get us going. And how's this looking? Can people see all the text? I want to do a check in real quick just to make sure that the screen is coming across. Marvin, can you see this? Thumbs up, thank you very much. Brianna, looks good for you. Okay, great. So these are the slides that are posted and are free to use. Today's theme is uniqueness of living matter, and we're going to cover three different aspects of uniqueness. This is a complement to what we set up on the first day, which is why does the engineering of biology matter in the first place. Now we're going to pivot and look at what makes biology matter as a type of material. So to get right into it, the first part of this will be about the physics of living matter, matter as stuff. And just as a pause, we're shipping now pre-class material. So on the course website on GitHub, you should have seen in advance of today a whole bunch of video and a little bit of readings and some self-study questions. And so we're transitioning into that mode of learning where before each class we will make available some materials and learning for you to do before the class in this first topic the physics of building matter, I'll give you a little bit of a revisiting of the pre-class material Just to help you transition into this mode of learning if you've not experienced that type of class before Taken taken differently what I'm trying to communicate is, please, please, please, we're counting on you to follow up with the posted material before and after class and that's where you can really add a lot of value to your learning. Where we ended last time was basically, I didn't use these words, but this was the takeaway, we've got a planetary scale natural nanotechnology. We've got biological stuff all over the surface of the planet and it's operating on a scale that is about four to five times bigger than what human civilization operates on in terms of energy. And it's operating from atomic scale, molecular precision, all the way up to ecosystems. So it's totally unbelievable what living matter is capable of. But now we've got to lift the lid on this a little bit, both from a science perspective and a practical perspective. So in the video that was nicely recorded by a very close colleague, Professor Jan Lippard, hopefully you saw some examples of physical uniqueness of living matter. Take the brain of a human, for example. If you look inside brains, you can see architecture and patterning of cells. This isn't a human brain, but another nice brain. If you go deeper and deeper, you can see neurons and synapses and so on and so forth. If you go deeper and deeper, you can see membranes and bilayers and proteins spanning. One of the points Jan was trying to land with you in the pre-class material is that biology operates with a spectrum of complexity that's continuous. You can go from an object that's a meter or tens of meters all the way down to an object of angstroms, and you've just got detail and sophistication and complexity continuously across all these length scales. Whereas most inert manufactured objects, a car was one of the examples, even a computer, you know, it has some complexity to certain length scale, but then when you transition length scales, it just gets boring, not much there. So something very unique about living matter, how sophisticated it is in terms of the encoding of form and function and information across many, many length scales. By contrast, right, you take something like the car and the things going into the car and it's got some ingredients. It's got a supply chain that's global. But it's not, you know, the supply chain's complicated, but the object really isn't, compared to biology, that complicated. Another thing Jan was trying to land with you is that if the car has a global supply chain, the biology has a local supply chain. Yeah, it's part of the globe, it's part of the ecosystem, but what's the supply chain for a tree? Well, it's the stuff arriving where the tree is, right? The photons for photosynthesis, the water, the air, the carbon, the nitrogen from the atmosphere or from the soil. So all the inputs, the physics inputs, the material, the energy, the jewels, it's right there where the biology is. You have stated differently, a distributed manufacturing capacity. We have grown up in modernity in the West, on the legacy and benefiting from centralized industrial scale of manufacturing, biology starts by being distributed, right? It's everywhere the biology is and the biology makes itself wherever the biology is. Kind of incredible. The reason we're trying to offer this to you through the lens of uniqueness is because we've all, we are of biology, we've all experienced biology since we were born by definition, and we kind of take the uniqueness of it for granted oftentimes. And so it's strange to reorient and contrast it. So to summarize and begin to summarize what Jan was pointing out was, biology has got a lot of different parts at a lot of different length scales. It can be very energy efficient. It runs in parallel, it uses local inputs. It's capable of self-mixing of molecules moving around. The self-mixing leads to spontaneous organization. These systems are capable of replicating. I've never seen my cell phone manage to give birth to another cell phone, right? But it's normal for a yeast cell to make another yeast cell, or a person plus another person to make a third person. You cut your skin, hopefully your skin will heal, and so on. So, I'd like to turn it over to Nikolai in a moment to set up our first breakout. We'd ask that you work in your groups to reprise some of the pre-class study, and Nikolai will give you some specific instructions for how to best organize. The task we're asking each breakout group to come back with is, how many different unique physical aspects of living matter can you remember from the pre-class or think about anew with your group, number one. Number two, at the microscopic scale, say atoms to molecules to subcellular, what do you think the most interesting or important aspect of the physics of living matter is? And also at the macroscopic scale, at the ecosystem to planetary, what do you think the most interesting or important aspect of living matter? So we'll post these in the chat, but we're asking each breakout group to return and we'll give you five minutes or so with your answers to these three questions. And on the first one, we'll just look for a number. Like, how many different ones can you remember or come up with? Let me stop my share and... Cool.

Hey Drew. Yes sir. There is some confusion regarding the first bullet point there, how many unique physical aspects? Do you have any clarifications for people?

This is a great question, just go for how many, like go for the number, it's almost like a brainstorm. Okay, but what would you consider like a physical aspect? Self-mixing, reproduction, healing, many different types of components. Just anything about the physics of the biology.

It would be really great if one person from each breakout reports back and says, we found, you know, we came up with this many physical aspects. Here was the most exciting microscopic. Here was the most exciting macroscopic. So if we can get that all together, that would be awesome. And we'll be patient with you, if you'll be patient with us, this is the second day of class and we're learning how to crank this a lot. Yes.

We were discussing like aspects of unique physical aspects, reproduction, both at the microscopic aspect came up, that how do cells reproduce, how do a molecule replicates itself, and how does that give rise to like an whole organism, you know, replicating itself. And how would we as engineers would utilize that to build the things that we would like to build, as opposed to studying them. So how, like in the chat right now, how DNA can code so many different organisms with just four bases is another example, right? A very cool idea that came up in my group, and Liam can speak to this, was the idea of symbiosis. Liam, do you want to chime in?

Yeah, so we were sort of saying that, I think his name was Adonis, he said that biology has a special feature of symbiosis and how at a macroscopic level, lots of different and unique living things can come together in like a community in order to work together.

So there's like this network effect, right? That we don't necessarily know all of the rules of the network, unlike, you know, like internet as an engineered network that we have control over the roots. Naomi, any other thing we should highlight? Yeah, so one thing that seems to be coming a lot on the microscopic level, people, at least in my group, and then I'm also seeing in the chat, people thought that DNA or one DNA or like the genome, like using CRISPR or GMOs, just kind of modifying the genetic code is kind of the most microscopic level. And one key thing that is sort of an interesting idea that came up in my group, I think it was Oliver who brought this up, was that, Oliver, if you want to jump in, feel free, but the idea was that kind of maybe DNA is like the bottom level, or like the only important microscopic thing to engineer because, you know, even on the cellular level, like DNA is what's controlling the cell. So like DNA will always kind of be able to control other kind of things in the microscopic realm.

I think another interesting thing that seems to be coming up that my, or the group I was in was also talking about was just how on the microscopic level, a lot of things might seem to act like kind of autonomously or not really know what's going on. But then when you like zoom out into the macroscopic level, there's like some higher order function going on.

And a lot of people seem to find that extremely interesting.

Right, I personally often struggle with this thinking of putting my scientist hat on versus putting my engineer hat on. That's like, how would I navigate these complexities as an engineer? And I think we speak about this later in the course, that we, like, what are the standards that we would need at the microscopic level or macroscopic level to be able to use this uniqueness of biology?

Okay, thanks everybody. So we're gonna, let me take the screen back and we're gonna jump in and go to, you know, the next dimension of uniqueness, which is related to the physics of living matter, but now it's getting into opportunities and challenges arising or derived from the unique physical aspects. So stay tuned. And this is gonna stretch you a little bit beyond the pre-class material. Can everybody see my screen okay? Thank you, or at least the people I can see are giving me thumbs up. So, one of the amazing things about humans is that we're not just humans, we have microbes. And you've already been talking about in some of the unique things, exponential growth and so on and so forth. So I just wanted to share as an opportunity, what would it be like if we could partner with the microbes that live on our skin or live inside us? You know, if you think about COVID-19 diagnostics, why do I have to go get a test? Couldn't I have an engineered microbe that lives on me or in me that just like changes my breath or changes the color of something I excrete if I have a coronavirus infection? That would be way better than having to go to the doctor. So what if there's some opportunity to partner with the biology that comprises ourselves to do what we want? Here's a neat project that Cicel and Christina did years ago now, I'm still smitten with. So they took microbes from the skin of colleagues at Harvard and then got raw goat milk or sheep milk, I can't remember, and they inoculated the milk with the human-associated skin microbes and made cheese. Cheese from the microbes found on the toe of a Harvard philosopher, from Christina's foot or Cicel's nose and so on. And wouldn't you know it, you can use the biology and the awesome power of replication and biosynthesis and conversion to make cheese from human skin microbes. I still remember when they presented the 48 cheeses they made, and how beautiful the bouquet of Daisy's armpit microbe cheese was, and how wrong the bouquet of cheese made from the toe of a philosopher's toe, Harvard philosopher's toe microbiome. But what does this teach us about the opportunity or challenges of biology? If my mom said, eat the broccoli, eat your vegetables, you are what you eat, this suggests there's an opportunity to, well, we eat what we are, and maybe there's a way of engaging differently in how we interact with the biology. To keep pushing on this, here's a undergraduate project from 2008 where these students, by bioengineering bacteria, reprogrammed its bouquet so that instead of having a fecal odor, the bacteria would smell like wintergreen because they could get the bacteria to make methyl salicylate, a chemical that is the odor associated with wintergreen, or isolamyl acetate, bananas. So what if your skin is smelling like bananas because you've got a particular infection? What if you could download your perfume as DNA code and install it in your cells, whether they be microbial or not, and grow your perfume where you are in response to the signals that you're getting. What a neat set of opportunities. If we could partner with biology to make the things we want where the biology is, including where we are.

And within this, and this was one of the,

just link it back to the physical unique aspects, there's a little video of cells doubling. These cells are quite small. These are E. coli, about a micron per cell. That's about tens of billions of atoms. So you've got an object of micron scale that within 20 minutes is capable of organizing an ensemble of atoms and molecules into a near perfect physical copy of itself.

Whoa, like just imagine the opportunity associated with engineering something that's capable of organizing matter into copies of itself. There's nothing else like that that we could think about. Now there's a puzzle, here's a challenge. And on Friday, by the way, we'll give you skills for quickly parsing papers, and that'll be part of the pre-class for Friday. I just wanna acknowledge something out of the gate, if you're thinking about being a bioengineer in the year 2020, there is no cell on earth that anybody fully understands.

I don't care how many Nobel laureates you're working with, or how many degrees you have, there's not a cell on earth that human civilization fully understands. And roughly, the numbers here give you an example, like the simplest best studied cells have about 450, 500 genes. There's about 100 genes that are absolutely essential for the life of that cell. And nobody on Earth knows what they do. What does that mean to the bioengineer? Good luck engineering a system where 25 percent of the componentry in the object you're engineering is a total mystery, among other challenges. So I just want to give you an example of a challenge associated with some of the opportunities. It begs the question, what don't we understand about biology? There are things that are essential to life still that we don't understand. And it's not that we're not hardworking and smart, it's probably that we don't have the tools. And who's gonna make the tools? Maybe it's the engineers. So maybe this opportunity and challenge thing interrelates.

So hopefully that gives you a taste of opportunity and challenge, making new things in new ways in new places, exponential manufacturing capacity, and we don't understand it. We still don't perfectly understand it. We don't even have it operationally understood. So, breakout number two, same operational detail as before, but here are the new questions. What do you think the most important opportunity is for bioengineering right now? Obviously, we'll return to this question, but for today, what do you think the most important challenge is to bioengineering or bioengineers? What do you think is most frightening about one of these opportunities or challenges? And what do you think is most exciting? So most important opportunity, most important challenge, most frightening, most exciting.

If I may briefly add one thing we recognize collectively that many of the opportunities and challenges and exciting and frightening were not very easy to decouple, that they were always like they came together. So it was very interesting and exciting that we didn't fully understand the cell. But it was also frightening that given all these years that we've studied these cells, we still don't fully understand. So what's the lesson there, Sivash, for the woodpecker engineer? Yes, the lesson is to acknowledge the ambiguity, at least as far as I can tell, and try to operate with not thinking that these two views are the extreme truths, that we are operating in this regime, that both of them are simultaneously true.

So Ella, your breakout was talking about the challenge of engineering polygenetic traits, like height and intelligence, presumably in humans. And Montana, you're reporting that you got the opportunity of improving human fitness and survival likelihood, but also the ethics around this stuff, so are either or both of you willing to pick up on that and talk it out a little bit, please?

Sure, we kind of discussed human survival as both a challenge and an opportunity and the ethics around it as sort of like how do you how do you create a line between survival and like improving past like unnecessary improvements and who's going to end up making that decision I guess and whether it's people in politics or people in bioengineering or like the people at large and then it sort of moves into a, well, who's in power? And yeah, so all these things are gonna need to be decided at some point and who's gonna be deciding them.

What do you think the right answer is or the right way of approaching who gets to make the choice? Personally, I think it, like, I think that's a really tough question, but I do think that it should not come from people who are in politics and be led at least by scientists because we also discussed a little bit of this as well. I think that bioengineering and similar fields have a certain amount of accountability. accountability and we sort of mentioned the CRISPR gene editing in the Child and I believe it was in China and I'm not I don't know all the facts off the top of my head You know sort of accountability The accountability that followed the release of that paper or whatever they were doing

Would you happen to know where that person who edited the twin girls in China a few years ago did their postdoctoral studies. At Stanford. In bioengineering.

Yeah. And sort of the fallout of that procedure, I think is something that you don't necessarily see in other fields, such as software engineering or I don't know. So I think that's really cool to see that accountability already existing in such a new field, especially considering that it is so tied to so many things beyond just the science itself, because we are affecting living things for the first time, and there's such a line between how we treat living things and how we treat inert things.

So just to give – great, thank you so much. And just to give everybody some context, in the course itself, we'll pick up early and at the end aspects of culture and politics as part of bioengineering, not a separate thing, but intrinsic to the discipline. And if you end up further and deeper into the program, typically junior or senior year, we have a required bioethics course for the undergrads. It's not required of graduate students or postdocs, which is interesting, maybe a loophole, but for your information.

I think we have a hand raised. Natalia, did you want to comment? I just want to say that, yeah, it's hard to decide who wants to do that because, yeah, politician, I mean, sorry, scientists are the ones working with the system and doing the actual bioengineering of it, but also like a bias that scientists could have is that you know they want to see how much knowledge they can get from the you know what they're doing and like you know they're excited about the science of it so they're like trying to kind of want to know everything which I totally would be like that I would want to know like everything I possibly can so that's a downside of it you know. In In my group, I think Olivia made some really insightful comments on this topic as well.

Do you want to chime in, Olivia?

Olivia Miller Yeah, sorry, I can. Yeah, we just talked a little bit about the idea of something that was brought up in our group is the idea of science advancing faster than society. And I just sort of made the comment that I think it's dangerous to think of some of these potential like gene editing and those things existing in a vacuum of a world without inequities, because we would hope that if we're creating these things, we are thinking about the idea that if they're not really evenly distributed or used, like rich people could be genetically different than poor people, and the global south can be genetically different than the global north. So I think it's important to think about those things as existing in conjunction with science and not as something completely separate. You like have to think about the effect.

Great. I think what I'd like to do is transition to the third topic. We'll make a slight adjustment and we'll keep it all together for the sake of time so that we can close in the next five or six minutes, so There's a lot here in the chat, and we'll share the chat. I think if we curate it So people can can benefit from all the great thinking that came back from the last breakouts So I'll share screen again and just hit you with a couple slides this third topic is going to be about the here and now. So what is it about living matter that's unique as it relates to the here and now? And I'll set up one example real quick. One thing that's happening right now is, quote, unquote, surprise. I don't think a lot of people at the start of fall quarter last year, this academic year, were expecting to be Zooming in the spring. And so there's a surprise coming from Living Matter, COVID-19. What's interesting about the surprise is it's not really a surprise. If you are paying attention to the literature, if you're watching Bill Gates giving a TED Talk about pandemics, if you're reading Wired magazine five years ago, very specifically, people are saying we need to be prepared for a pandemic. And that's not to do with the immediate organization and politics of the response since COVID-19 arose, but it's just for the last 10 years, 20 years, 30 years, 40 years, people who are in positions of responsibility and leadership have been saying, we need to be ready for pandemics. And we're not. Historically, I wanna draw your attention to another quote unquote surprise. This is from 1957. This is when the Soviet Union launched and orbited the first man-made object around the Earth, Sputnik. And to many and to most politically, this was a big surprise and really turbocharged the space race and led to the Apollo program in the United States. Again, if you were paying attention to what was going on, if you were reading the newspaper, you could find reports in the preceding years that the Soviets were about to launch a satellite. Nevertheless, it was a surprising thing. So something that's unique about bioengineering today, and will ramify for the remainder of the decade, no doubt, is that the whole world, all of humanity, is going through this surprise perturbation. What becomes of that, how you engage with that surprise to do things you wish to do or not, or how those pressures oppose what you're trying to accomplish will matter, would be my bet. So that's an example of what is unique about living matter in terms of the here and now. Surprise, hi, living matters here. I don't expect you to read all this. I'll give you a different type of uniqueness in the here and now by drawing a comparison to electrical engineering. So this is part of an interview with one of the co-founders of Pixar, the movie animation studio. I'm sure most of you have seen a wonderful movie or film or short from Pixar. And what Albie Ray Smith is reporting here is in the 1980s when they were moving towards making a computer animated film, how many times it didn't work. They were so excited to do it, they set out to do it, and they didn't do it. And they were failing for the same reason. They weren't able to afford the computational power sufficient to render the animation. They didn't have enough money, the computers weren't powerful enough, and so on. And they failed once, and they learned from that, and then they tried again a couple years later, and they figured out they didn't have enough money to do the computing, so they were failing twice. But now they had two data points, and they made a projection. They were learning how quickly computers were getting better over time, so they could get a sense of the uniqueness of computing from a pacing perspective, what is more commonly known as Moore's Law, and we'll pick this up in detail in week five, when we talk about sequencing and synthesis of DNA, reading and writing of DNA. But as soon as they had those two data points, everybody knows a line is defined by two points. So once they had two data points, they could make a projection into the future and accurately estimate when they should make their first feature-length animated movie, Toy Story, in 1995 or thereabouts. And they got that exactly right. So pace of change is something that's very unique to bioengineering today. I'm showing you the pace of change historically for computers, but equivalent trends are true for DNA. What surfaced in the first breakout is one of the unique things about living matter, this code for life. So how do we navigate the next 10 years? How do you navigate your lives and careers when you've got a pace of change around DNA read-write that looks like what people experienced over the last generation for a computer?

We're not gonna go to breakout, but I wanna leave this here for a little bit so you see the prompt and might consider it. So for you, given whatever you're seeing, I'd ask if you could please write down or think about between now and Friday, what about the here and now do you think matters most to bioengineering or bioengineers? And when we come back together on Friday, if you could collapse that into a single word, what we're gonna ask you to do is rename yourself around the here and now, what's unique about the here and now to you regarding bioengineering. So we'll make a note about that in the pre-class for today just so you see it. So hopefully today, you got a chance to practice with your peers and remember, or maybe if you didn't get a chance to see the pre-class because it's the first time we've shipped pre-class, what about the physics of living matter is unique? Then we talked about opportunity challenges and uniqueness there, and now we're talking about the here and now. Gave you two examples of surprise and pacing. Hopefully you can add your own perspective. I expect you can. To wrap up for today, and again, just to get you in the pattern of how the course is gonna operate, for most classes we will have pre-class reading, activity, or video. Shouldn't take you too long. Shouldn't take you more than an hour. For Friday, we have a little algorithm we want you to run. There are two papers posted from the research literature and bioengineering, and we have a little algorithm on the right, just five steps we want you to do very quickly to see if you can accelerate how you learn from the primary literature, not the news reports, but the actual front line reports from bioengineers of what bioengineers are doing.
