WEEK 1 MONDAY LECTURE 1

You'll see I have some particular views and wishes for what you will learn and accomplish as a result of this course, not just in the quarter, but between now and the year 2030, so stay tuned for that. What I'd like to do is share a screen and just give you a visual reprise of this. So, hopefully you can see that. Here's the TA teaching team. Underneath the names of each of our TAs, you can see their lead responsibility. So, as noted, this will be in the slides from today's class.

And following up is Subhash, Michael, and myself. What we'd like to transition to is an imagination exercise. And the way this exercise is going to work is, please grab a piece of paper or just something you can jot some thoughts down on and get ready to think about a question. Here we go. Before going any further in this course, we wish for you to imagine a bioengineer. Just close your eyes and clear your mind and think about bioengineering, what attracted you to the course, anything you're thinking about.

And if you have a piece of scratch pad, just sketch the bioengineer that you can imagine. Little stick figure or however you like to draw. Spend a minute or two on it once you imagine a bioengineer and what they're doing or who they are, whatever you see in the world, whatever you wish for a bioengineer to be. And after you sketched your bioengineer, take on the second challenge, come up with three words to describe the bioengineer.

So everybody, please go ahead and do that by yourself right now. Silence. Okay. If you're new to Zoom, again, you can bring up the chat window by clicking on the chat icon in the bottom, and there'll be some text there. Anybody's welcome to put any message. You'll see what I just said as a quick prompt now typed out. So, we're just going to spend one more minute on these two prompts. We wish for you to imagine your bioengineer, what you think that person looks like and what their, how would you describe them if you were to pick three words?

Okay, so what we're going to do now is we're going to push everybody into breakout rooms and you'll be in a breakout room with four or five other students in the course. And we'd like you to talk about in your breakout rooms, what is the, to compare your bioengineers and to see if you can identify any aspects of your bioengineers that are the same or different. Okay, so we're looking for similarities or differences among your bioengineers. I'll put that right here. And we'll give you a couple minutes to discuss this. Okay, here we go. Silence.

So, Okay. Thank you. Silence. So, if you're joining us, please bring up the chat window, and if you could just type into the chat window for yourself and what you learned, what was a similarity shared with your peers in terms of your bioengineers and what was the difference that struck you? Just put, you know, similar equals this, difference equals this.

The thing that most struck you from your own thinking and your discussion in your small breakouts. Lab equipment, innovative, creative, curious. Curious, problem solver, interdisciplinary, smart, lab coat, ethical. Kali has a great difference, using nature versus improving nature. Marvin has an interesting difference, specialization versus, what would that be, general? Clarice, interesting, difference is medicine or sustainability, like human health or environmental health. Very interesting. Troy, Troy's, everybody was aligned, no differences.

Deja, that's amazing. Wow, Deja, that's amazing. Differences are bioengineers for good or bioengineers for evil. Wow. You hit the jackpot. Oh, thanks. What a good start. Yeah, yeah. So this is a pretty interesting exercise.

Maybe you've seen it, we've adapted it from colleagues in mechanical engineering. One of the reasons we like to open the quarter with it is to help you think about for yourself before you hear much from us, what bioengineering is about and how you envision it. Most of bioengineering hasn't been imagined yet. There's a core, but what you can do with it, there's a core that's totally solid that we'll cover, but what you can do with it and how it relates to the world mostly hasn't been imagined yet, and who gets to do the imagining and how it's translated into reality is very much up for grabs.

So we'd really like to hit you with this out of the gate and to let you interact with each other to see how you think about it. We want to tackle one more thing up front. And John, I think I'm going to call on you to help with this. We're going to ask you to redirect to a Google forum to do a quick pre-class survey. Well, this might take you five minutes, so it's not like a total breeze through. And I just want to share some quick information about it so you can handle it more quickly.

So what we're going to ask you is a series of questions, 14 questions in the survey. John's put the survey link in the chat. So if you can see that also and go to it, but really quickly, we're just looking for a numerical score, zero to five on each of the prompts, where zero means you're using words, I don't know what the words mean. That's totally fine.

It's an introductory class. That's what we're here for. We just want to know what your baseline is. So zero means I have almost no knowledge or no knowledge of what you're asking me about. One is I kind of know what these words, I've heard of these words. Two is I've done it in class somewhere. Three, I can do this by myself. Four, I could help somebody else learn how to do this.

And five, I'm such a guru on this topic, I could teach you and make it better for everybody. So if you go to the survey, we're going to spend five to eight minutes. We'll wait until people come back until we pick things up. So take your time. And just for the 14 questions, self-evaluate, zero to five, and we'll come back and ask you to do this at the end of the quarter so that you can see if we moved the needle at all. It doesn't matter what – we just wish for you to be honest now, right? So correct answers are honest answers here as you self-assess. So please go divert to the Google form and see how that goes. And if you're super good with Zoom, when you come back, if you're finished, if you go into the participant window, you can just click a green yes button and that Also, please feel free to use the chat if any of the questions in the survey are unclear or you want any clarifications, please make sure to ask.

I'm sure other people will have the same questions you all have. Thanks, John Silence. Okay. Silence. Wow, we got 85 responses already. 89. Josh, where do you buy your emojis? Oh, they are at the, you know, like where the managed participants and chat is. It's a reaction option.

So there is a clapping and a, and then there's a thumbs up. Do you see them? No, I'll look later. I think you have to get. Yeah, I do see it. Right on. We're all discovering and experiencing Zoom and learning as we go. This is my fourth Zoom of the day. So if you're back and can see the participant tab at the bottom, if you open that up, if you haven't opened that up and click yes, a green yes, that's a great thing to do.

We'll use that throughout the quarter just to get quick feedback, yes or no. So, good to work that out now. Yeah, we've got 84 yeses, 86, 90 yeses. John, how many survey results have come in? John Riegel We have 100 survey results in. Great. And while we're finishing this up, let me just do a quick technical check. Is the audio and video working reasonably well coming from me? Yeah. Anna Claire, how are you doing? Can you hear me okay? Yes. Okay, great. Thank you. And Richard, how about you? Can you hear me okay?

Yep, fine, thank you. Okay. Yeah, if anything comes up, beg patience in advance and please just slam a note in the chat or wave your arms around and we'll be watching and so on. I had a fun time over the weekend cutting a hole through the wall and the floor to get a direct Cat6 line to the router, try and get better bandwidth for this. Okay, so thank you very much for that. And you'll see that again at the end of the quarter. That will help us calibrate the exact detail that we're providing as well. Again, the point isn't to expect you to have mastery of all of those topics, but those will be things that we'll be touching upon.

Let me compliment that by going back to my screen and sharing a little bit about the class. So what's this class about? So I'm just gonna say out loud some of the things you may have read already. We wish for you to learn how to think about the engineering of living matter. So our view of bioengineering is very particular, very 21st century. We're a new bioengineering department at Stanford.

We're the newest engineering department at Stanford. And so we have the benefit of starting from scratch with our undergraduate major within the last decade. So we're really focused on the engineering of living matter as opposed to the engineering of electrical systems or mechanical systems for clinical or agricultural settings. Nothing against that important work, but we're really focused on the biology, if you will, that's number one. Number two, we wish for you to become better at learning about bioengineering and teaching others about bioengineering. So teaching yourself and teaching others. This is definitely a frontier with a lot of open-endedness. Three, to be capable of leading discussions about why this matters, including with people who may not know anything about biology. And then four, which is very, very particular for this quarter.

It would be obvious to say, but I'll say it, that anybody paying attention to reality right now is learning that biology matters even more than we already appreciated, and therefore biotechnology matters even more than we already appreciate. There's nobody to first approximation who's escaping the reality of COVID-19, as we all know. On the other side of this perturbation is whatever comes next. And in particular, one of the things we're going to leverage this quarter is to encourage you and to enable you to think about what you wish to be true regarding bioengineering within this decade.

So where do you wish to land in 2030, so far as bioengineering goes? Both figuring out what that should be by listening to others, by incorporating diverse perspectives, but also figuring out how to make it practically true. When we look at the demographics of you, you know, about a quarter of you are first year, second year, third year, fourth year undergraduates. That means some of you, a good fraction of you are seniors. And so, after this quarter, you'll have earned degrees.

You may be going to school, or you may be going on the job market. I think the idea of going on the conventional job market is daunting, but I have a hypothesis I want to share right away. There is a jobs problem in bioengineering. We're not going to have enough bioengineers by a lot. The amount of bioengineering that's going to need to get done between 2020 and 2030 is so great that we couldn't possibly enable enough people to study bioengineering.

Now, the trick is likely to be the case that most people don't understand what is needed from a bioengineer. And so that means for many of you graduating, you're probably going to have to construct opportunities from scratch for yourself. Our job collectively will be to create air cover such that everybody knows how important bioengineering is. But there's a special thread running through this quarter, this fourth point. What do you want to make true via bioengineering over the next decade and how are you going to do it? Okay.

So, I want to talk briefly about grading up front. To get a satisfactory grade in the course, there are two conditions to meet. Two conditions to meet. Number one, we're going to have P-sets, and you should earn an average grade of 70 or greater, percentage-wise. lowest P set shouldn't be an issue so long as you can stay on top of things roughly. Second, we'll have a final project. Ideally, it's team-based, but there may be some extraordinary circumstances we'll handle on an ad hoc basis. And for the final project, you should also earn a 70 percent or above. We will have, in addition to this, some self-study quizzes throughout the quarter that come with the readings and so on, that will allow you to accumulate quiz points, if you will, that could be used to reduce these thresholds from 70 to 60.

So that passing the bar, so to speak, on the PSETs in the project is less burdensome, as it were. Mostly, what we're trying to communicate to you is we wish for you to learn via the PSETs and the final project, not one or the other, but both. Other thing to say, at the bottom on the slide, we're very sensitive to the transition to S and C grading. If you need reference or recommendation coming out of this course, we, the teaching team, are looking forward to and expecting to write very specific and detailed and celebratory letters of reference as appropriate, if and as useful to each of you, right? So if that's something you're worried about, we're standing ready to help with that.

Okay. I'm gonna do a quick tour. You can see this on the Canvas, it's a PDF. I'll just give you a quick tour of the topics. For those of you who are thinking about how to spend your time in the quarter, wanna give you an upfront overview of this. Why engineer biology? We'll get to that in a little bit today. What makes living matter special from an engineer's perspective?

Wednesday. And because we're a frontier discipline, how to read the primary literature by yourself, right? So how to read a research paper. Next week we're going to talk about people health, medicine, planet health, the environment, and political health, how technology relates to culture and power. We want to give you that up front so you can think about your final projects with a diversity of perspectives from the beginning. Then we'll talk about tools for seeing. For those of you who gave us your shipping address, we will be overnighting you an origami microscope as well as some other materials for two activities. We'll do that on the 20th.

Then we'll do analysis and design of molecules, starting with proteins, followed by analysis and design of genetic systems in general. From that, on the 27th, we'll transition into abstraction as a concept for bioengineering, Boolean logic as developed in a diversity of cell types from microbes to mammals to plants, and then from that, a very general-purpose system architecture for engineering biology. Starting on the 1st of May, working in teams will support you in developing skills and tools for advancing your projects. Then the following week, we'll talk about DNA synthesis as a core technology, past, present, and future. That feeds into a qualitative insight and disruption.

That's an overused word, but it's real in this case, how biology is basically going on the Internet via DNA read-write, but we're on team projects. Thereafter, we introduce you to the physics of living matter in a particular way, starting with molecular-scale diffusion, how that leads to spontaneous behavior. We'll give you practice with that through an activity. We'll ship you materials for self-organizing, spontaneously moving droplets. From that, we return to tissue engineering and developmental biology morphed together to think about how would you program growth and form of shapes.

What's shown on this slide is plants as found in nature, and as the words come up, you'll see what the plants are. Now the form of these plants is prior to human domestication. So this is the natural form of the plants, if you will. Corn without a cob, and so on. Let's see if this plays. No audio, at least on my end. Or on mine. There should be a way for you to share your computer audio. It's okay. So, I'm just going to tell you, this wonderful lady is so excited about the dog that she has bred.

And so, just like domestication of plants has occurred, domestication and breeding of animals has occurred. Another type of interaction with biology has been the changing of the use of land. What's shown here is the replacement of a forest or jungle, if you will, with oil palm plantations. As you change the use of biology on the land, you change the habitat for the biology, as well as the diversity or lack thereof of the species operating on the land.

40 years ago now, here's a patent owned by Stanford University, human beings invented genetic engineering. So starting in 1980, people began to bring to market the capacity to cut and paste DNA to make novel or chimeric molecules. That immediately went to market economically and has been doubling as an economic activity for the last 40 years with a doubling time of about seven to eight years. So this plot ends about eight years ago.

It's doubled since again. And what you're looking at is the major sectors by which the engineering of biology shows up as products. Food in terms of GMO crops, not without controversy, biologics, which is shorthand for medicine, and industrial means industrial chemicals, intermediates and supply chains. If you've not seen this before, this is what it looks like. So this is an image of yeast cells, which would normally ferment sugar and make wine or produce bread, and they've been engineered to make an industrial intermediate, farnesine, which is that oily yellow substance, the yeast cells being the blue little circles.

You can engineer yeast to make approximately any natural chemical found in nature. So here's my wife and her team working at Stanford years ago now, engineered yeast to brew chemicals found in the opiate poppy. So instead of farming poppies, you could take a fermenter, feed it sugar, and out comes medicinal compounds. Dennis, working in Hawaii in the early days of genetic engineering, did almost a DIY local genetic engineering project.

He took the papaya crop, which was suffering from a virus called the ring spot virus. You can see that in the top middle, the papaya with the green rings on it. And he used first-generation genetic engineering to make a strain of papaya that's resistant to the virus. And on the bottom right, you can see papaya plants on the right, which are not susceptible to the virus growing and healthy, and the ones, natural ones susceptible to the virus not growing very well. So that's just a quick example of industrial chemicals, medicines, and food. Open question is how far can we push it? How much better can we get at engineering living matter?

And the first approximation response is as good as we wish to become good. It doesn't seem like there's a physical limit for why we can't become arbitrarily good at engineering living matter. There's a lot behind that that we'll get to throughout the quarter. I want to give you an analogy or comparison to where this seems like it is in time, just so you calibrate your expectations and have a sense of how immature some of the tooling is. So, there's a really neat quote in Gates Hall on campus in the computer science building where when that program was getting started in the early 1960s, they recognized that enough is known about all the different things you can do with a computer that we can figure out how to write computer code in a way that doesn't really care what you're using the computer to do, that the structure of computing is much the same.

And by analogy, it appears to be the case that the same thing is playing out in bioengineering. Whether you're using biology to make things for industrial stuff, medicines, food, store data, create works of art, whatever, the structure by which you do the bioengineering in terms of working with the biology is much the same. Now, filling that out and making that as capable and as true and mature as computer science and what not is a formidable task for everybody. It's not just academics thinking about this.

Here's a screen grab of a workshop from six years ago where the leadership of DuPont, home headquarters in Delaware, came out to imagine all the different things they could do with biology. They, at the time, had six or seven products on the market that were grown, biological made, and they imagined when they were a 300-year-old company, their entire product portfolio would be biomanufactured. How to get there from here is the big strategic question.

What's interesting is the question is not just about hardcore science and engineering, it's also a question of culture and politics and how people are organized. They also brought to me the recognition that most of bioengineering hasn't been imagined yet, even though there's been this amazing history where we're still the snowflake on the tip of the iceberg in terms of what could be done. Here's just an example of that. So this is a supply chain, if you will, for all of industrial society, starting with fossil inputs on the left, petroleum, natural gas, and so on, and going from left to right, the large-scale chemical engineering processes that would let you take those inputs and produce all the things people need at civilization scale.

The proposal, approximately, is to replace all of that with real-time biological feedstocks grown in the moment and making the exact same things, but to do this, you have to completely remake civilization's supply chains for all industrial compounds. So that's in part, just through one dimension, what's in front of bioengineering. Remake the entirety of the supply chains for civilization such that we can make all the things that 10 billion people would wish to have without trashing the planet.

Of course, when you go to do this, you can overshoot, right? So, this is an example of fertilizer runoff leading to an algal bloom in a swimming pavilion, sailing pavilion, back in 2000. But it just keeps going and going and going. When you look at all the things that biology grows and you start to imagine what could we do if we partnered with biology better, is it about nature or is it about engineering? Well, maybe it's just about connectedness and partnering. What could we do, right?

So, here's a photo I took at a farm down in Monterey, interspersed within the strawberry fields. They get this type of input, which is ground-up wood chips from the Central Valley of California, for example, when the almond farms turn over. And you know what they do with these wood chips? They grow mushrooms on them. They take the organisms that eat wood, the white rot fungus, and they turn that input of wood chips into gourmet mushrooms that you could buy at the boutique mushroom providers like the Farmer's Market up in San Francisco.

It also turns out that you can take these organisms to do other things. Here is a company called micro works up in Emeryville that takes the same organisms and instead of growing food, basically we will put the wood chips in a giant lasagna tray and the organisms will grow in the wood chips until they get to the surface, it will be like a spongy mass and the surface will differentiate into a type of mushroom skin. Over time that mushroom skin will strengthen and you can peel it off and put it through a tanning process. And so suddenly now you have a replacement for animal leather, but there's no vertebrate, there's no mammal involved in the manufacturing process. It's a wood fungus with wood chips making leather replacement.

And if you were at New York Fashion Week before things shut down a couple months ago, you would have seen this company bring their products to market initially. They partnered with the design houses to create a type of sustainable leather that doesn't involve animals in its manufacture. I want to keep going by hitting you with a wild card. And a lot of times when I think about biology, I think about what's limiting what we can make with biology in terms of how much photosynthesis there is on Earth. It turns out that recently I've discovered this is a false limitation, a false ceiling on how much we can make with biology. So here's something you might not have expected to see in a bioengineering course, but beg patience.

Here's a paper that's doing an analysis on photovoltaic solar panels, how much energy they take to make the panel, and how long you need to operate the panel to get your energy back. This is called the Energy Return on Energy Investment, or EROI. It's like Return on Investment, money in, money out, but in this case, it's energy in, energy out. And that highlighted thing towards the bottom, the mean energy return on investment is between 8.7 and 34.2. What that means is a photovoltaic solar panel, according to this analysis, let's just pick a number in between, 20, makes 20 times as much energy as it took to make the panel. And that hasn't been true a decade ago. That wasn't true.

This is recently true, a transition over the last decade. So stated differently, photovoltaic solar panels make 20 times more energy than you need to make them. That implies that we're transitioning to an electricity generation abundant civilization. We're going to have plenty of electricity, so long as we keep making solar panels. Huh, now transportation of electricity and storage of electricity, big deal. What does this have to do with bioengineering?

Check this out. So remember on Friday, we'll handle how to read research papers. I'm just giving you postcard snapshots, all right? On the left, you can see this paper, conversion of E. coli to generate biomass from carbon dioxide. And E. coli normally grows on glucose, sugar, right? Like a soft drink. But here it's growing on this thing called formate, which is this strange little compound in brown.

And when you feed the E. coli formate, it's been engineered to eat formate. And by the way, you see this paper was published in November of 2019, so this is less than half a year old. That microbe eats formate and fixes carbon dioxide and grows. So you can feed organisms formate and carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and get more organisms, more biology. Now how about this paper on the right from 12 years ago? Electro-reduction of carbon dioxide to formate on lead electrode in water. Basically what this paper is reporting is you can take electricity, split water in the presence of carbon dioxide and the right catalyst, and you make formate. Okay, so put those two facts together. Electricity makes formate, formate makes biology. I can grow biology on electricity if you put those two things together. And the napkin math down at the bottom is a summary, one kilowatt hour is a gram of biology.

From talking with Tom Harabio in chemical engineering at Stanford, my analysis is 30 fold too conservative. That should really be, he thinks one kilowatt hour should make 30 grams of biology, which is a crazy amount of biology. All right, so let me hit you with this as one last for instance. Imagine having a box in the year 2030, hopefully it gets here sooner. Into the box comes electricity and internet, which will give you DNA sequences and carbon dioxide.

And what comes out of the box is whatever biology you can program it to do, whatever bioengineering you've mastered. I'm going to call this thing the personal biosynthesizer, right, or the pocket bioengineer. It's like the personal computer, but it's for bioengineering. And it'll be enabled by a network of genetic sequence information, the Bionet. So between now and 2030, why not build the Bionet and the PB? How would that change the world? Pretty quickly, you pivot and have to get to some other questions.

Like what does it mean to do this? Who should be doing it? What should we be wishing for? What's the culture around this technology? When people talk about the personal computer as a revolution, it's a cultural revolution on top of the technology advancing. If you care about nature, what's the relationship between all these would-be bioengineers and people who care about preserving nature and biodiversity? Gonna have to figure that one out. Collectively, what are we up to? What do we wish of biology? What do we wish of our relationship with the natural living world and whatever we have to do with it.

So I'll end with this slide today. This is the double-decker suspension bridge grown in place from the roots of a rubber plant. It fixes carbon, it gets stronger over time, it can be passed down from one generation to the next. It represents in a direct way all the things that biology could do. I'll summarize that by saying, we've got a capacity with biology on this planet to do at least 90 terawatts of manufacturing.

90 terawatts is an energy level, civilization's pulling 20 terawatts. So four and a half times as much power is running through natural photosynthesis as civilization's running on. But if you parse the electro biosynthesis, this 90 terawatts is not a cap. We can basically implement a near arbitrary amount of biosynthesis if we play our cards right. The question before us that we'll explore in addition to the science and technology is what should we do with this capacity at scale?

Right, that's what you all will confront if you choose as a second generation of genetic engineering, whether you are the protagonist in genetic engineering or just a citizen going into the future along with it. So what if we provision for 10 billion people without trashing the planet? What if we took infectious diseases completely off the table? Why should we be surprised in terms of infectious disease when we don't like to be surprised in any other way. That's insane.

It'd be nice to have a culture of citizenship as opposed to consumption or subject or objecthood. And obviously if we learn how to build things, we'll understand life better. So there we go. Welcome to the quarter and welcome to the class. What we have in front of us is an on-ramp to help you think about these things and to get to the practical starting line. If you're already an expert, you know, as a fourth-year undergrad, we'll give you some things to go deeper with.