WEEK 3 FRIDAY LECTURE 9

So we're going from analysis and design of biomolecules to analysis and design of biosystems with a particular introductory focus on genetic systems. And so from molecules to systems, we can anticipate that we'll be dealing with more than one molecule, and hopefully you got a sense of that from the pre-class reading. We'll pick right up and use the pre-class reading to introduce what it's like to think about, i.e. analyze systems of molecules and set up to design them. I'm going to jump into a screen share and head off to today's slides. Nikolai, can you see those thumbs up? Thank you. So here's the first of two papers, an oldie but a goodie, 20 years old. This paper was published maybe just before, maybe right around the average birthday of the class, I wonder. Maybe you're just a year younger on average. So a synthetic oscillatory network of transcriptional regulators, Mike Elowitz, Stan Liebler. Let's use our paper parsing tool. So can we make sense of the title? A synthetic network of transcriptional regulators, an oscillatory network, something that's oscillating, something that's oscillating involving regulators of transcription. From Wednesday and the tutorials, hopefully we can think of that as the reading out of DNA, the transcription of DNA to make messenger RNA. Now when we skim this abstract, I won't belabor it, I'll go right to what I would consider to be the main claim. We used three transcriptional repressor systems to build an oscillating network. So in the double-bolded text is what I think the most succinct main claim of this paper is. We used three repressors to build an oscillating network. So there's a strong claim, curious title. The next step in the paper parsing tool, everyone should remember, is go find the evidence. And the main evidence, I would argue, shows up in figure two. So again, hopefully you saw this. I won't spend too much time on it, but to remind you or warm you up, at the top of this, we're looking at a time series. Each snapshot is an image taken of a colony of bacteria growing on a microscope. The bar in row B, that's this black bar, I guess that's about a micron or a couple of microns. And the numbers across the top, 60, 140, 250, and so on, those are minutes. So it's a time-lapse movie going up to 600 minutes or 10 hours. The A row, which is a black background, that's recording the glowingness of the cells, the fluorescence of the cells. And the gray background row, row B, that's a light image, what you would see just with normal light. So if you focus on row B for now, you can see that the cells are rod-shaped bacteria, E. coli in this case, and they're growing and dividing on a two-dimensional surface. They're building into a little colony, a little village of bacterial cells. The arrow in both row B and row A are pointing at exactly the same cell. The lower row is what it looks like under normal light, and then the top row is what it looks like in terms of the glowingness of the cell. And if you follow where that white arrow is pointing, you can sort of see at time 60 minutes on the left, the cell is dark, and then it gets a little bit brighter at time 140 minutes, and then it gets dark again at 250 minutes, and then it gets brighter again around 300 minutes, and dark again around 390 minutes, and bright again around 450 minutes, and dark again at 550 minutes, and bright again at 600 minutes. And this is quantified in the plot below, where the x-axis of the plot is the same time in minutes, but it's showing more data points, not just the snapshots or postcards up top. Then the y-axis is the glowingness or fluorescence of that cell pointed out. And a couple trends, or one trend and then one observation, the trend is overall the fluorescence is going up. So independent of anything else, these cells are just getting brighter with some glowing object inside them. But then if you look at the rise and fall of the glowingness, you follow this messy trace over time. It's going up and it's going down, it's going up, it's going down, it's going up, it's going down, it comes back up again. Does anybody have any questions? Let me pop out of this. Does anybody have any questions about this main evidence? Yash has a question in chat that talks about the inspiration for the work.

He's talking about the PRE circadian rhythm as inspiration for the work.

Was this study inspired by circadian rhythms? How is the mechanic different from that? It's a good question. Absolutely. Michael is inspired by oscillations found all throughout nature, timing with respect to day-night cycles. The timing of pattern formation is in development. But there's another thing that was motivating Michael, which was a type of curiosity regarding, do we understand enough about how proteins or biomolecules behave inside cells such that we could engineer a system that would have a chance of behaving like we expect? So this is a project done 20 years ago, which means the project was actually done several, started several years before it was published. So it started, say, in 1997. It was started when Michael was a student at Princeton in the physics program working in biology. And the question back then was, could we put together a system of four genes, as you're about to see, and have it behave as we intend. So part of the motivation is, of course, the curiosity of oscillations and how important and beautiful they are in nature. But at a very fundamental level, scientific and engineering, it's like, can we operate biology at all, according to our intentions, at this scale of complexity? So there's two motivations, I would say. So thank you, Yash, for the question. I'm just skimming the other questions. Why do the maximum fluorescent peaks increase gradually with time as the system continues to oscillate? So that's a question from Ahmed. Thank you. That's a great question. Why does the amount of fluorescence ever go down? Why doesn't it keep stepping up like a staircase? So the fact that it's actually going away at all, that indicates that whatever is causing the fluorescence is being actively degraded by some type of garbage disposal, protein chomper inside the cell that will recycle proteins. And that if the protein wasn't continuously remade or made under the control of this oscillator, the cells would be totally dark. Now it looks like the rate of production on average is greater than the average rate of degradation. And so you get this trend, this upward trend, like the upward trend in atmospheric carbon dioxide just keeps going up, up, up. The other thing that's causing the cell's fluorescence to go down is the amount of proteins in the cell get diluted out by the new growth, if you will, unless they're remade. So if you just stop and think about a cell doubling, a cell doubling is not some poof, magically the cell's twice as big. Every object in the cell got copied, approximately. So balancing production and dilution due to growth and active degradation to get a horizontal line is quite an engineering feat that's not perfectly accomplished here. If you're asking about degradation, Josh, it's not that. It's an SSRI system and we can take that offline.

Yeah, so the main evidence here is just this signal, this brightness of the cell that's going up and down, up and down, up and down over a period of 10 hours, maybe five peaks, and there you go. So, how'd they do it? How did Michael and Stanislas do this? And this is their schematic, if you will, their blueprint for their genetic system, their oscillator. And what's shown here is the layout. It's literally a blueprint of the DNA that encodes the oscillating system, which Michael named the repressilator, for reasons that'll become apparent in a moment. The circle on the left that's got the beautiful colors, the orange, red, and blue, that's the oscillating system. And the circle on the right, that's just the readout system that's gonna control the making of fluorescence or not. So let's talk about the making of fluorescence because that's simpler. On this circle, you can see there's a block on the right which is green, and that's the open reading frame. Remember open reading frames from Wednesday start with an AUG or ATG, end with a UAA or equivalent. So there's a set of triplet codons on DNA. Oh, right, these circles represent abstractly DNA sequence. The circuit DNA sequence, which is the reporter system on the right, within that reporter system, on the right-hand side in the green block, I've got the DNA sequence, the open reading frame for the green fluorescent protein. And the production of that is controlled by the orange block just above it, which has this funny nomenclature PL1001. So basically, that orange block, if it's turned on, will cause the green protein to be made. And if it's turned off, you won't get the green protein made. And all the stuff grayed out on this right side circle is just maintenance functions to keep the DNA around. So we're going to not talk about that today. So the only thing that right circle is doing is when the signal is correct, make more green glowing protein or not. The oscillator is shown on the left, or at least it's schematic. And if you're just keep the same idea, if that green block on the right is an open reading frame for a protein, all the longer blocks on the left are going to be open reading frames for different proteins. The orange one is called TetR-Lite, the red one is called LacI-Lite, and the blue one is called LambdaC1-Lite. And there's no consistency in nomenclature here. LacI, that fourth letter in the name is LacI, whereas CI, it's not CI, it's C1, and that's just biology mumbo-jumbo, so we're not going to worry about it, but that's why I'm talking fun. So I've got a system on the left, and the blueprint says I've got three different open reading frames for three different proteins. And the way Michael has set this up is the proteins are going to control whether or not each other are made. the orange protein, Tet-R, is going to bind down at the bottom in front of the blue box for the C1 protein, the lambda protein. That blue box, that C1 protein, that'll bind in front of the red box for the lacI protein. The lacI protein will bind in front of the Tet-R open reading frame in its red box. So, the colors match each other. Where you see these arrows pointing clockwise, that's where the proteins encoded by the colored open reading frames bind and control the other open reading frame. Holy moly.

I want to pause and backfill a little bit of knowledge for those who need it. So I want to talk for just a minute about regulation of gene expression via repressors. So how does gene expression in prokaryotes or bacteria work? Typically you're gonna have a gene. In bioengineering you can make it your favorite gene. So imagine you have an open reading frame as shown in the blue box here for your favorite gene. It could be any gene you like. To the left of that, often called upstream, there's going to be a region on the DNA, which is where the RNA polymerase molecule physically binds the DNA and initiates transcription, or promotes transcription, the reading out of the DNA to make RNA. And that region, because it promotes transcription or promotes gene expression, is conveniently referred to as a promoter. And within the promoter region, there are going to be specific sequences in a prokaryote often where the physical molecule of the RNA polymerase touches with the DNA to recognize that sequence as a promoter and initiate transcription. And those can often be referred to as minus 10 and minus 35. That's the number of base pairs before the RNA transcript starts. So this is just background information that you need to have in order to understand how one of these repressor proteins are going to work. So a repressor protein is going to be a separate, distinct biomolecule. It will also bind DNA. It'll bind DNA at what are known as operator sites, where the repressor operates, quote unquote, on the DNA. And the operator sites, there can be one, two, or three of them in locations like what's now shown in these red boxes with the O's inside them, just imagine what's gonna happen. If another protein binds, say, in that middle O between the green minus 10 and 35 boxes, and that protein's just hunkered down on the DNA, it's gonna compete with the RNA polymerase for binding. So repressors regulate gene expression in this very simple principle that every three-year-old, four-year-old, or five-year-old can understand. You cannot have two objects in the same position in spacetime. So if you have one molecule on the DNA doing one thing, you cannot have another molecule in that same exact location in space at that time doing some other thing. So if a repressor protein is binding in one of its sites and that occludes or blocks the RNA polymerase from binding, the RNA polymerase will not bind, and you'll get little or no gene expression. Stated differently, when a repressor's concentration is high inside a cell, if it acts at a promoter to turn it off, whatever gene is next to that promoter will be not expressed at all or very weakly expressed. I want to pause there and do a check-in and ask for questions of clarification or anything else.

If you're following along, you should be able to get to a next type of protein. Imagine you have a site next to the promoter, not blocking the RNA polymerase, but a place where a protein could interact with the DNA and help the RNA polymerase bind and initiate transcription. Such a protein would be called not a repressor that turns off or represses transcription, but an activator that turns on gene expression. So as soon as you get the idea that you can dock proteins on DNA and they can block or help other proteins binding DNA, then you can begin to think about how to construct control systems and logic related to anything to do with gene expression.

Since we were looking at visualization tools and analysis tools for proteins, I pulled from the protein data bank, the links and the actual structures for all the proteins that comprise this repressilator system. So on the left is a crystal structure cartoon representation of the lambda repressor binding its operator sites on DNA. Lactose repressor is in the middle. Tetracycline repressor is the blue object towards the right, second from the right. And the green fluorescent protein has this famous barrel shape standing alone and when hit with the right wavelength of light will emit a green wavelength of light typically. So if you want to follow up and look at what sequences they interact with, how to think about reprogramming what sequences a repressor binds to, you can take a look at the structures, get the exact sequences, see what happens if you start to change the residues and so on. So, Vash, can I rely on you to call out any questions that are showing up in the chat? Yeah, thanks. So I want to come back to this blueprint and try and talk it out. How does this thing actually produce an oscillation? So imagine a starting situation where the lambda repressor, the protein encoded by the blue box is high. When that protein is high, it's going to act on its operator site upstream of the lack red box. So it's gonna turn off the production of red. So blue is high, red is gonna be low, that red protein. If that red protein is low, then it won't turn off the expression of TET. So the yellow protein will go up. But if the yellow protein will go up, look how it regulates the production of the blue protein. So the blue protein will go down. If the blue protein goes down, then the red protein can go up. If the red protein goes up, then the yellow protein will go down. If the yellow protein goes down, then the blue protein can come up. So the way Michael's laid out the operator sites in relation to the open reading frames is causing one repressor to regulate the next repressor, the second repressor to regulate the third repressor, and the third repressor to loop back and regulate the first repression and it happens to be the case that one of the three the tet or orange one yellow one is regulating the green so that's what's coupling this to an oscillatory readout but the heart of the oscillator is three negative interactions a turns off B turns off C turns off a and when a is high B is low. And so C is high, so A goes low. So B can go high, so C can go low. Right, so there's a closed loop, closed cycle of the system speeding back on itself dynamically, that results in an oscillation.

What would happen if, for example, instead of having three repressors in a cycle, you had four? So to make the word simple, A turns off B, B turns off C, C turns off D, D turns off A. What would that system do dynamically over time? Anybody want to take a guess? Just chime in on that.

More generally, what would be the difference in the behavior of this synthetic genetic system if you had an even number of negative regulations in a cycle versus an odd number? So Jack has a comment on chat who he says it won't oscillate. It won't oscillate, that's correct. So what will it do instead, would you guess?

What's the opposite of a oscillation in time? If I have A and it's high and it's turning off B, so B is low, then B won't be present so it won't be able to turn off A, so A will stay high. So if I have two of these negative regulators cross-regulating each other, I'll have one of two possibilities. A will be high and B will be low and they'll stay like that, or B could be high and A could be low and they'll stay like that. And so it serves as a memory element to hold state in one of two counterbalance positions. So it's pretty interesting just by thinking about how the connections are related to one another, you can get qualitatively different dynamical behavior, store a memory or make a pattern over time.

So it's from the same paper, but it's just the full movie. And you can see it at your leisure at Vimeo through the link below. Michael was nice enough to post it there. a better sense of what's going on with the growth of the bacteria and the blinking, the oscillation of the fluorescence. I'll just run it back. Victor, does that work well enough coming across for you to see it clearly? Thank you. So let's just stop and I want to ask a question. Can you see my mouse pointer? Okay, see these cells right here that just divided and they're in this intermediate bright state?

Let's just watch them go forward in time. Now they're dividing again.

So now there's four children in the family. And look how, you know, one, two, three, four cells. These two cells over here, which are more closely related, are significantly brighter than these over here. And if we play this out a little bit more, now these are totally off and these are still on. Why are they different? And look how fast they're different. You know, like they're becoming different in minutes. These are genetically identical cells all running the same DNA code, so far as we know. And if you just follow the bright one turning on right here, super bright, they're just not, and then some of them come back on but they don't. So this is what you would call in simple language a noisy system. It's performance over time. It quickly diverges one system to the next.

The second paper we asked you to parse sets up a question about why or why not that may be occurring. And so this is looking at a different genetic system, which is a natural system in this case, a system called bacteriophage lambda, from which Michael got one of his repressor proteins when he made his oscillator. So if we parse this paper quickly, the claim is highlighted at the bottom of the abstract in this case. The question posed in the title is, what's determining when a cell is infected with a virus whether the cell is destroyed and releases progeny or survives but carries a dormant virus? And the claim here is that variation in the size of the cell, the volume of the cell at the time of infection can be used to predict and perhaps determine cell fate. A twofold difference in volume leads to a fivefold biasing in what happens. And the evidence here is a plot buried in the paper that says how big is the cell on the X axis and then shows what's the outcome of the infection of the virus. The blue curve that goes up from left to right says the cell is more likely to be destroyed the bigger the cell was when it was infected. The magenta curve that goes down from left to right, the cell is more likely to survive the smaller it is when it was infected, and it's well studied in part because it's the benchmark system for understanding how genes are regulated by repressors and activators. So, I'm highlighting a book that's a wonderful book to learn from, and in this book you can You can see an operator region where an RNA polymerase is interacting with DNA to turn on gene expression. It can turn on gene expression in either direction on the DNA, to the left or to the right. The top cartoon is showing what happens if the RNA polymerase binds and initiates gene expression to the left. That results in a viral infection outcome where the cell survives, it's infected, but the infection is dormant. Alternatively, if the polymerase initiates transcription enough times heading in the opposite direction to the right, a different set of regulatory molecules repressors will get made. It will reinforce that outcome, and the developmental pathway controlled off to the right on the DNA will happen, and you'll get a viral infection that kills the cell. So the determination of when a virus called Lambda infects a bacteria results in death of the cell and release of progeny or dormant infection and survival of the cell all comes down to whether repressor proteins that are turning on and off gene expression, how they bind around an operator site. This has been very complicated for biologists to figure out, but they figured it out, but it's been way more complicated for bioengineers to think about. So here's a beautiful paper from Stanford, a real good friend, Adam Arkin, did back when he was a postdoc, and he's talking about the analysis of this bifurcation. By bifurcation, he means, does the RNA polymerase bind this part of DNA and go to the left, or bind this part of DNA and go to the right? And the text highlighted here, I'll just read it out. When two proteins act at low concentrations in a cell, competing with each other at a switch point, stochastic, which is a fancy word for random, random variations in the concentrations of the proteins lead to probabilistic pathway selection, in plain English, lead to a coin flip, such that an initially homogenous, identical population of cells spontaneously partitions into distinct subpopulations. What Adam's arguing is, because cells are so tiny, when you start thinking about biomolecules, proteins that make up systems acting, the actual number of proteins in the cell is maybe it's like 10 proteins in the cell, or maybe it's even smaller than that, maybe it's two. And suddenly you can't think about this like a bulk continuum system. It's a discrete, almost single molecule system that's going to be subject to all sorts of random thermal noise and random behaviors. And if you set up a switch-like element where something could go one way or another way, depending on where a repressor protein binds at that moment, you'll just get a coin flip. Holy cow. Imagine if that's true. Imagine if would-be engineers of biology somehow have to navigate randomness at the fundamental level of molecules interacting with other molecules because we simply can't control it, right? And it's part of the miracle of life, but now you want to engineer something and how's that gonna work?

I'll just show you what it looks like from a systems engineer perspective. You know, Adam's got that switch region in that box called the Lambda switch where there's three operator sites and the polymerase can go left or right, but then he's linking that up to all the other feedbacks and outcomes and so on. So he can better think about it and analyze the system. Just to give you a hint at what's coming when you try and make sense of these natural systems. Okay, so I wanna set up a breakout and we'll spend five minutes and breakout, but let me set it up by spending a moment here on this movie. This is a movie from the pre-class, but I want to bring us all together and narrate some of the significance of it.

So this is a time-lapse movie of bacteria growing and dividing. I'll pause and just go, whoa! Like, I've got bacteria growing and dividing? This is an object of like 20, 30 billion atoms that can make a copy of itself? That's incredible. That's one of the fundamental things that's incredibly exciting about bioengineering. We can operate with objects that organize disorganized matter into structures like themselves, and they do it in tens of minutes. We've got reproducing machines. So if you're an engineer who likes to build things and that doesn't blow you away, whoa, like you just, we gotta talk, because this is amazing. All right, now, editorial side. These cells, which are growing and dividing, they're also infected by a virus, at least some of them are. The cells that are infected turn green and you can see in this movie the cell in the top right that just got blown up, that was infected, so we'll let the movie reset and see. Okay, just okay got infected and poof it just lysed. You can't see the virus particles on this light microscope because they're too tiny. They're only like 60 nanometers, shorter than the wavelength being used on the microscope. So this cell is infected up here, gone. This cell down here, it's infected, it divides, and it survives. And its progeny survives. So right in this movie, genetically identical cells, each infected with exactly one copy of the same virus. One cell experiences death by viral infection, the other cell survives. You might be wondering, why don't the other cells get infected and there's just not enough time for the virus to get over there. But so here's the setup for the breakout. There's a binary outcome here, life or death, survival or not. You can think of that if you want as zero and one. If you take the claim from the second paper, you might notice that the cell that pops is bigger when it turned green. The larger cells tend to pop or get destroyed. The cell that survives is smaller at the beginning. But at the breakout, please just think about, well, what do you think? Do you think biological system behavior at this scale, at the scale of individual cells, is it random? Is it a coin flip or is it determined? Or could it be determined? So, I'd like to break up to discuss that question. The second question is, why does the answer to this question matter in general to bioengineers? Why would a bioengineer care about whether or not the control of behavior in biology can be determined or is always going to be random. So if we could pause there and go to breakouts for five minutes or so, and come back with answers to those two questions, that would be fabulous.

I hadn't appreciated that Adam Arkin had done a kinetic model of the lambda switch? Yeah, it's very, very important. It was the first mapping of a developmental biological process onto a representation of intercellular physics that was better than continuum differential equations. So it's a really profound step to take. In this case, I believe it to be entirely incorrect in terms of what it predicts about the biology.

Sorry, I don't have my glasses, appreciate the extreme beautiful connection to very fundamental physics about the nature. So that's, that's, that's an answer. It's a good answer. It's similar to quantum physics, there are probabilities. And as engineers, it seems unlikely, because we are, because we are complex machines, and that level of abstraction seems unlikely. Jordan, can you add a little bit to that? What do you mean?

No, that's okay. I'm not explaining it very well. But I was saying, so like from like a biologist or physicist point of view, to see that unity with like, with the quantum level that at some point, there's like the bifurcation point, but we see that with like electrons and on like a much more fundamental and less abstracted scale. So to see that at this level, like to see that bifurcation point that is that random probability seems unlikely, but it would be really cool. But then also from an engineering point of view, it's obviously a pretty big problem if you do have that like fundamental randomness.

So to read back as engineers, if there's a random element in a system that I engineered, that might be an extra layer of challenge. And I also think that it's unlikely that that would have evolved unless it is some like inevitable, very fundamental like connection. But I don't think that that would have ever evolved in nature because that's not really an engineering advantage. At least I don't have the mathematical skills to know or know the game theory if that's actually an advantage.

So Ahmed said that preexisting differences in the features of the cells, likely the size of the cell, also influence the outcome of the infection. But I have a follow-up question to that. So what if every single thing about the cell between the two cells were the exact same, do you still think you would see that kind of randomness in the outcome to Ahmed?

I think to an extent, you'd still see differences due to, again, stochastic elements, but it implies that there's a degree of non-randomness to it that can be of help to engineers obviously when they're trying to create models to kind of streamline the process and trying to extrapolate information from what they see.

These are fabulous responses coming in on the chat. And I just want to celebrate the, you know, the sort of, there's a cultural reality here at the intersection of science and engineering that manifests because the biology is operating at the scale of atoms and molecules. And it's immersed in this thermal noise bath, if you will. Schrodinger, the physicist, when writing the book, What is Life? 80 years ago or so, you know, just wondered at how life could ever work because in all the noisiness of random motion to get order that we see throughout living systems seems impossibly improbable. So Henry, for example, my group agreed that a degree of randomness is unavoidable in every aspect of life. With this in mind, bioengineers should never expect to be able to wield control, perfect control over organisms. We may get close, but there are always the uncertainties and anomalies. It's very interesting, it's very rare in my experience that you go from fundamental science, like fundamental physics, fundamental biology, to massive ramifications in terms of cultural expectation. And so it's so amazing to see that close linkage of the physics of living matter then playing out. I think there's a lot of cultural bias in exploring this question coming from the sciences and your perspective as tinker or observer. And I think the question is still open to be answered. It matters greatly for the reasons that are being hinted at here or stated plainly. Should bioengineers expect to be able to obtain reliable control over the operation of living systems or not? And so, yeah, you've got it. I'm going to set up in – we're going to go two minutes over, but I'm going to set up some teasers for what's coming that build on this puzzle with some more recent evidence. Should be new to most of you, that's okay. These are just gonna be fun things to look at. This is a movie showing a more recent genetic oscillator.

And they're synchronized.

They're synchronized locally and over centimeter scales. The oscillations running in micron-scale bacteria, this work was done by Jeff Hastie and his team at San Diego. So they start up out of phase and they lock in phase and then train. And there's some funny things going on, like there's some bright spots. It kind of reminds me of having like a blown pixel on an LED television or computer screen. So maybe it's random like that, maybe it's a manufacturing defect, I don't know. I'll give you a close-up look at this. Each one of those glowing blocks is a colony of a thousand, a couple thousand bacteria. They're growing and dividing and getting washed away, but as that's happening, they're also running a different type of oscillator that's better at synchronizing itself, both within each little block, but somehow all crosswalk, such that when you go all the way back up to the original movie, I can run this again, all the blocks start syncing up. So here's an existence proof that you can get much more reliable dynamic behavior, both at the single cell scale and across tens of millions or hundreds of millions of cells. If we look at the diagram of how the system works, this is what it looks like. It's also a four-gene system. Just four genes, different genes organized in a different way, it's a different type of oscillator, and you can see that there's all these arrows going around, and it's more complicated. So we're setting up a question for next week, which is, how do bioengineers manage complexity inside the overwhelming complexity of the cellular milieu, we're going to use an engineering tool called abstraction applied to bioengineering to teach you how to do that. So, we're not expecting you to figure this out on the fly. You're welcome to try, but this will be a good example that we can come back and test our knowledge of abstraction that we should develop next week. Want to give you one more teaser for week five with the last slide for today. So, in this week, we're beginning to introduce you to tools for analysis and design of biomolecules, analysis and design of genetic systems. We're just scratching the surface of that. And so, in week five, when we get into genomics and reading and writing of DNA sequencing and synthesis, we're going to park this year as a special, an opportunity to do an on-ramp into bioinformatics tools. And I grabbed from an amazing website an annotation of the open reading frames for the genome, 30,000 base pairs or so, of the COVID-19 coronavirus. And it's such a beautiful website and annotation. Let me just bring up the website so I encourage you to spend some time this weekend poking around at it. Not only do they have the open reading frames, they've got every tool and online service for analyzing open reading frames, proteins, predicting structure, online service. Look at this left menu bar. All right. And now, if you come down, well, this open reading frame, number one, translates to this peptide sequence, which has this structure. And if I scooch over to the right, it makes this a little bit bigger, which has this function. Protein number two, is it, you know, does this, what it does, this is what it looks like, right? So if you wanted to spend the weekend teaching yourself or your friends or anybody, everything humanity knows at a molecular and system scale about the components and genome of COVID-19, here you go. And we'll come back to on-ramping that more formally within the class on the week after next, week five.

And I just jump in. And also, please think about the spacing. Some of you do a fantastic job of typing the answers already, but, you know, like leave us a bit like it takes us some time to read. And the faster and easier we can read it, the faster and more comprehensive feedback we can give you. Cool. So. Thank you, Sivash. We recognize that the material presented today has more technical detail with the biology than we've had previously. We're really starting to get into the nitty-gritty of the actual biomolecules that do the things we claim that bioengineers are unable to do. If this feels uncomfortable, if you want to freshen up on your biology, if you want to try and ask us any questions on this, there is another bio tutorial on Monday hosted by Victor. He's over here for me, I don't know where he is for you. He's gonna be going over a lot of the language that we're talking about today, transcriptional control, translational control, talking about how you actually design a system where transcriptional units are interacting with each other. Similarly, if you are stuck on the actual biomolecules themselves, like what makes up the DNA and the RNA and the proteins, please go to the course materials and look up the tutorial that I posted. There's video and lecture slides for that that are available online.