WEEK 3 MONDAY LECTURE 7

We had a tutorial over the weekend on Sunday on the basics of biomolecules and the physical composition of living matter. All of those materials are now available online. In addition, there will be a second tutorial next Monday, which will be not on the physical construction of living matter, but rather the abstraction of living matter, talking about the genetic systems that control living matter and how we might engineer them. So if you feel uncomfortable with the words transcriptional regulation, phosphorylation, post-translational modification, networks, AND gates, if any of these words are less than familiar, this will be the tutorial for you. This will be given by Victor on Monday.

So we looked last week at domains of opportunity as a concept, what do bioengineers wish for? And we focused your attention on three different aspects. People, disease, wellness, what do people care about from bioengineers? The planet, what do species have to do with bioengineering? What do ecosystems have to do with bioengineering? So planet health and political health, how the practice of bioengineering is connected to so many things, and it manifests in terms of how people relate to each other and to the government. So those are the big concepts from last week. The tools or skills we wanted to introduce you to are shown here, Framestorming, which to read it back, the question you ask frames the answer you get. So Framestorm before you brainstorm, as Tina Selig would say. Or if you're stuck trying to figure out an answer to a question, maybe you got the wrong question, so you should reframe the question. That was Framestorming. And we also did futures wheel. What happens as a consequence of doing something? This is a tool that can be used to understand what the impacts are, both direct impacts and indirect impacts. So when you're trying to make a decision as a leader about whether to advance or oppose a particular application of bioengineering or bioengineering development, maybe you'd want to use a futures wheel as a tool to understand consequences of success.

If you've got questions about Week 2, I'd really pick up on Sivash's comment. Let us know. Bring it to office hours. Ask us for a one-on-one at a better time. Not going to reprise last week any further right now. Looking ahead to this week, we've got four concepts and three skills. Who are you and how are you motivated is a concept we're gonna cover today. How should engineers think about tools is another concept we'll cover today. And then Wednesday and Friday are analysis and design of molecules and systems in biology respectively. The skills are gonna be build your own microscope, tools for representing biomolecules, tools for representing genetic systems.

So let's get right into it.

I bet many of you, if not all of you, are familiar with physical activities like going up and down stairs or kicking a ball. And when you think about it, you might have a preferred stance. You're going to kick that soccer ball with your right foot or your left foot if you had a choice. When you go up a staircase, you'll put your right foot first or your left foot first, depending on your preference, depending on your natural stance if you were Skateboarding or surfing or snowboarding you'd have a right foot forward or a left foot forward as well And so finding your stance how you prefer to start something is is familiar with physical activities But perhaps less familiar with mental activities and so in the pre class for today. We had an activity That is designed to help you find your natural stance with respect to learning scientific and technical knowledge. And so I'll turn this over to Sivash to walk us through this.

Right. So the activity was that you have a box that you've spent some time building, right? And then you flip the switch and you're expecting to light come up, but instead you get a poof and a smoke that starts pouring out of the device. And we ask you that what would you respond? Would you say darn or would you say cool? And how does that help us to think about our stance towards bioengineering? So some of us might care about discovering. We are really excited to figure out how things might work. How does a cell work? Some of us really want the thing that we spent a long time building to work. That's what we care about. Like, you know, we wanted to work and and that might help us to be a maker or the other one might help us being an explorer. The idea here is that you have to be able to switch both to switch and be able to do both. But just like, you know, kicking a ball, you have a first foot that you would put forward as a bioengineer and you would be able to switch these perspective or switch these hats. So I see that 20% had said cool, about 40% have said darn, a fraction, like I think 30% have said both, and 5% are saying other. Other is fair too.

I'm going to end the poll and just share the results so everybody can see what you're saying there. This is super helpful. This this tool came to me from Tom Knight, an electrical engineer and friend at MIT long ago. One way of interpreting the results is if you say, darn, I just want this thing to work, that might indicate that your preference is to learn by tinkering, by building. If you say, cool, like is there a mystery here? I don't know why it's not working like it's supposed to, but I'm gonna find out. That might give you a sense of you prefer to first learn something in a more scientific mindset. And as Sivash is pointing out, and a number of you are saying both, you prefer both. That's fine too, you can hop up the staircase. No problem. And that's valid. So this isn't meant to be a prescription. But when you start to see what we're doing in bioengineering, for example, you know, Anna Maria, if I wished for you to learn everything about how peptides interact with nucleic acids, I could give you a problem like here's a natural biological system that uses this type of molecule and figure out how it works. Or if you were a tinkerer, I'd say you could build Boolean logic with DNA binding proteins. The same knowledge is underneath those questions, but how you're motivated to learn could be complementary or distinct. And again, it's not a prescription, it's just a tool to consider when you're working to motivate yourself and finding classes that help you learn. Anything else on this, Subhash? No, that's about it. Okay, great.

So we've got one more concept to land today.

So the second concept we wish for you to pick up on is how bioengineers or how engineers in general think about tools. And we're going to give you two ways of thinking about it. So what's shown on this slide is a very simplistic cycle of how engineers work through projects. Once you know what your project is, you've got to prototype it or design it, build it and test it. So you could call this the core of the engineering cycle. And of course, when we navigate this core, we're dependent on the tools we have. And so not only do you care about the tools you have, but as an engineer, we also care about making the tools we have better, improving the tools. And so there's a tremendous domain of work and success in bioengineering in particular, and making better tools. And you can think about a, better is a subjective term, right? So better could be what? Better could be faster. You could do part of the cycle more quickly. Better could be smarter. It might take a while, but whatever you make works. It's like the perfect design. It's easy to build. It's easy to test. It's a smart way of going about it. Or maybe you could take something and do it a billion times in parallel, each a little bit different. Biology does this all the time with mutation and evolution. So maybe we could get better at engineering biology by enabling more shots on goal, so to speak. So one of the things we wish to give you consideration of is how tools are central to bioengineering and improvements to tools in particular are particularly central to bioengineering. Second, and this is going to sound a little bit strange, just the words line up in a strange way, so I want you to both be patient and have fun with what I'm introducing you to here. Tools are not tools. It depends on the form of a tool. And I'm going to give an example of painting as a way of thinking about it, but of course the fold scope, which we'll work on shortly, is a great example of this as well. So it used to be not that long ago that most artists, most painters would mix up their own paints from pigments, from scratch. And only just over a century ago maybe that quote, unquote, ready-made paints in foil tubes became widely available. This matters because it impacts who can use a tool, the paint, and where they can use the tool. For example, in this painting here from 1870, a scene at the beach, if you look at the painting carefully, you can actually see sand in the paint, on the painting, apparently. And so at least part of this painting was painted at the beach. So who is painting where? The answer to that question depends on whether or not the tool can be used in the scene shown here. Why does that matter? Well, that matters because depending on who's doing the painting and where they're doing the painting, that informs who's being painted. In this case, the painting is not of a matron in a salon in an urban setting who can afford to hire a painter to make a portrait. No, instead, this is workers in a field. So for this painting to have been painted, the tools of painting have to be accessible to the people who would paint in the field. This is interesting because it shapes the representation of what's being captured in the painting, the practice, and that then leads to things like meaning and culture. Depending on if you can paint quickly or not, you are going to capture effects of sunlight that might be transient and so on and so forth. I don't want to belabor the painting example, first, because it's not my expertise, but second, because I think it lands the point already. You can hopefully quickly think about comparisons to computers. An industrial computer that operates in the basement of a building is not the same as a personal computer. When people refer to the personal computer as a revolution, it's not really a revolution in science or technology. You know, like the logic of Bool doesn't change. It's who can compute where for what purpose. It's likely also the case that the personal bioengineering toolkit will have ramifications and opportunities all its own. So with that, we're now set up to introduce and operate on a tool for seeing biology, the Foldscope, which hopefully many of you now have a kit to assemble. And if you want to think about this in the era of hashtags, this is a tool that enables you to explore who you are and how you like to learn when you observe things through your microscope? Are you looking for useful gizmos in biology? Are you looking to discover? It's an example of an improved tool. It's an example of enabling you to engage with nature. And it's an example of a form of technology that enables many to access a technology. 

And our guest is here as well. Who is our guest, Sivash? Would our guest be willing to introduce himself or should we go ahead and introduce him?

Hey everybody, this is Manu here. 

You are all dispersed across the country. And the world. And the world, actually. Yeah, no, that's... and you are about to join if you have not as yet already built your Foldscopes. You're about to join the world's largest amateur microscopy community globally. Foldscopes are distributed around 150 plus countries. Last year we crossed a million marks, so there's a million folks just like you who love to explore and are curious about the world. I think I can give you just a one-line backstory. Why we did this was to just make the experience of science accessible to every single person. And, you know, we all talk about the challenges. Science is fairly complex. It's also not everybody has the chance to be at Stanford, take these types of classes that really emphasize the, you know, in the context of a pandemic, you can think about this. Why is it that there are protests right now on the streets of people wanting to just open up? So how do you really grapple these sets of issues? And the approach we have taken is that not everybody gets to genuinely have their own aha moments in science. And I think the sets of tools that we can make accessible would allow not just you, so I think I have a very specific ask for all of you. I know probably Drew and Subhash and have their own homeworks, but I have a very specific ask. You know, I'm not worried at all about you guys. You have made it in a way that you're gonna do brilliant work no matter what, whether you have this tool or not. My hope is what you can see yourself is a conduit to actually bringing the experience of microscopy and microbiology in general and show life in its real form at the microscopic scale to a much larger group of people in your community. And what a better way to do this assignment in your home, but physically in your communities yourself, because right now you're not in some dorm at Stanford, you are actually in your community. So a challenge to all of you would be is, first of all, make your own observations. See what's the craziest possible object that you can image. And I can guarantee you, when you dive in into the microscopic world, every preconceived notion, every one of your intuition will break down. You'll see kinds of things that just, your, I mean, human mind, frankly, is so limited in our imagination, unfortunately, from when you look at the natural world at the microscopic scale, it just truly stretches in balance in what you will observe. And, but you're going to do that in the context not of a lab, but in your living environment, outdoors or indoors, for example. The other big ask that I have is to just make sure that you engage with the community. When I literally said a million kids around the world, maybe what I'm gonna do is, Harish, how am I doing on time? I wanna show one picture to everybody. So that's- Let's show it. But I want to make sure that we have the time to show that picture.

Let's do one picture and then we got to get to building the scope.

So, yes, and then I will disappear at that time. I'm just going to share my screen for a second and if you go to this community site it's called microcosmos.foldscope.com and this is literally the live wire of the Foldscope community. And, you know, I was just browsing through and it is all different languages. There will be some languages you won't understand. And I stumbled upon this post and I was just starting to read it. And I want you to engage with this community primarily because you will see the context of science, not just from your own eyes. So what's beautiful about this, this is about the COVID pandemic, and this person basically took all the mass that they could find in their community and they imaged it through a full scope. So what you're looking at is all this data that's coming out of full scope on all kinds of mass that this person could find. But importantly, this person is actually in Iraq right now. So this data is coming out of Iraq. And now you can click on his author ID and you start seeing what this person does and you can start seeing that this is not the first time he's engaged with the community. And this is what changes when you think about your context, but everybody is dealing with the same context. And the picture that I want you to see in terms of thinking about who you are joining as a community is, of course, I can never find my pictures. Okay, we could use this picture. is Fullscope as a community is not demarcated by age groups or by your academic degree or the capacity of your prior accomplishments. It's driven purely by curiosity. So what I'm gonna challenge all of you is make an observation as creative as these three girls actually already made in the community site. And I'm not joking, this is actually a real challenge. I've done this with many academic groups in classrooms at Caltech, the first intro to the classroom, and I put their posts and what they did right next to what a few groups of young kids in a slum in India did. And it was an explosive thing where they were literally thinking about their surroundings in a way that I just could not even fathom. So here is a, you know, you want some competition. These three kids are your competition. And I'm actually, you might think this is a joke. I can, I, you know, that's a pretty high bar for you to think about. What are you gonna image? And on that note, the important bit is that you all share what you image because the moment you share, you will be mentors to these people around the world as well. So this is not about you per se, but how you use this tool as an act of activism to actually engage with this broader community. And especially in the context of a pandemic where people are scared, quite literally, with what it means, the microscopic world, is it all bad? So with that note, I'm going to shut up and I'll let you guys build your microscopes. You want to find videos and stuff, there are tons of tutorials online.

Manu, just want to read back before you go. Just want to read back. So challenge number one from Manu is wherever we all are, can we use Foldscopes and ourselves to engage as educators? And then second, your challenge is, what is the most amazing thing we can find? It's almost like, are you smarter than a fifth grader? Yeah. Yeah. So it's back with Microcosmos. Yeah. And we'll be back. So great. So thank you so much, Manu.

Bye, everybody. Thanks, Manu.