in your fucking bedroom. You know what I'm saying? Like, here's the, here it is. Here's the DNA, right? And the way he talked about it, I was just like, oh, okay, that's cool. And it moved on, right? But the way this narrative gets weaved, anthrax available in your bedroom, news at 11, right? You know what I'm saying? Like, it's not the thing that we're scared of, it's the story, you know? The story that we're being fed is what puts us in fear, right? This whole Halloween, everybody was talking about fentanyl in your Halloween candy, more at 10. There was not nearly a fentanyl anywhere trick or treat-wise, nowhere, right? But the story, because it hits that reptilian part of our brain, right? The story makes you go, Halloween candy, fentanyl, them damn scientists are up to it again. You know what I'm saying? Like, that's not what it, that's just not the reality of it, you know? That's not the reality of it. But the hard part is like, scientists don't really know how to say, what the fuck is wrong with y'all? Like, we don't want, we don't spend 20 years after high school sitting around trying to kill everybody. Like, that's not what scientists do. Like, it's just, you know, you're talking about very introverted people who like to sit at a desk looking through microscopes. Like, that guy is not dangerous. You're not the Joker. You know what I'm saying? Like, it just doesn't, no scientist that I've ever met has been like, now I know, you know, I can eradicate the entire world. It's more like, oh, I found a new bacteria. Ain't that cool? You know? But it really is about being just completely in wonder of the things that we can do and make, and building stories around that, you know? And building stories around that and getting that word out there. That's why Star Trek is so influential, you know? Star Trek is Star Trek because they were just like, we got, we figured it out and now we're in, you know, the Alpha Quadrant. You know what I'm saying? Like, we out there. Yeah, a couple of things. One, I think we should have cool hunters out there who find, like, cool things about science and bring them to us, right? Because I think, especially as for bioengineers, the arts is a perfect way to get that message out, right? Because materials are expensive. And if you have access to cheaper materials that are sustainable, that last longer, that's going to completely change the game, right? I think a great way to come about bioengineering is food. And we don't really look at food as bioengineers as a way into bioengineering. I think developing specifically, like, kitchen appliances that turn bioengineering into, like, everyday practices would help the narrative and it would help get people interested and it would employ a lot of bioengineers, right? Because you can start thinking about ways to, like, you know, engineer a steak and save a cow. You know what I'm saying? Star Trek, the replicator was like, that changed everything, right? The fact that you can create these objects from nothing, right? From just create, you know, mass out of no mass, right? Create matter out of antimatter, right? That's the dream. Let's start making things that we can put in our world that kind of moves us towards replicators, right? Let's have 3D printers that can build us our mushroom shoes, you know what I'm saying? In the crib. Now, right now, it might take three days to build one shoe, right? The way we distribute the pattern of the shoe is you're buying the creativity, right? You're buying the pattern and you're downloading the pattern and the material is mushrooms. You just throw mushrooms in the hopper and in three days, in a week, you have a brand new pair of Jordans, you know what I'm saying? Like, those kind of ways to turn that bioengineering into, like, these everyday kind of things is the way in, I think. The first thing that's blowing me away, I have to say, like, the COVID vaccine was pretty huge. It was pretty huge. I mean, I can't talk about it enough. That is just a feat of science that is kind of a once-in-a-lifetime thing and it happened in such a unique and collaborative way. Like, you know, a lot of people aren't in rooms with a lot of professional scientists, but it's kind of crazy, you know? Like, every scientist thinks the other scientist isn't doing enough in their science. Every scientist thinks that their research is better than the other scientist's research and so there's this yelling back and forth of, like, you think you can do my job, you know what I'm saying? And it's this volatile, like, very kinetic, very adversarial space, right? But when it's time to make something, everybody shuts up, puts all their data in the pool, and they make the thing, right? So for the COVID vaccine to get out there as the way it did and how it did is pretty Herculean, you know? It's pretty Herculean, especially this idea of mRNA and they were just like, let's try that, you know what I'm saying? Like, messenger RNA was just a really creative idea, you know? It was a really, really creative idea and everybody else is thinking that we're trying to make designer babies. Like, that doesn't... A, we're already doing that. We don't need DNA synthesis to do that, you know? We do it in the club. You do it at the bar. Like, when you find somebody, like, I want to have children with you, that's what you're doing. You're designing your children, you know what I'm saying? Like, we're already doing. So we don't need magical potions to do that, you know? But the fact that the world came together and did this thing is incredible. And so what's... And bioengineering is actually coming into coming of age right now, right? It's becoming kind of the science of now. It used to be like space exploration and then it was like astrophysics and then it was quantum physics, right? We're kind of moving into the age of biology. We're moving into the age of bioengineering and we're going to start seeing more and more things talking about bioengineering and biology, right? We're going to see more and more people doing it. We're going to see more and more stories about it. And stories about it as a good thing, right? And not as a bad thing, not as like genetically enhanced human beings, you know what I'm saying? Or genetically engineered. We're all genetically engineered. Like the way we think about it, it's going to change, right? And it's going to change. We're going to see many more purple mucus stories, right? It's really coming of age right now. So I'm trying to get my hands on as much information as possible, which is why I'm talking to Drew all the time, right? Because he's, you know, he kind of is the godfather of synthetic biology and he has such a creative imagination and, you know, I think our relationship works because everything he says, I'm just like, that is the most amazing thing I've ever heard in my life. You know what I'm saying? Like it's just, everything is just so mind-blowing. So there's so much that's exciting about synthetic biology. When I walked through Drew's lab at Stanford, right? Because we were co-teaching a class together at Stanford and which is how we really became friends. And then I walked through his lab at Stanford and he showed me the DNA printer and I was just like, can I have one of these? You know, I want one of these, you know? And he was like, I don't see why not, you know? And I was just like, I would love a DNA printer. I didn't even know that was a possibility until I walked around his lab, right? Then he showed me the gene delivery, like internet, where you can like order a gene and it'll come to your house and you can do experiments. And I was just like, there's a world out there of like people who are interested in this and who are doing this work. And then one of Drew's students named David Kong, he teaches at MIT, he's also become a very dear friend. And he does this thing called the Bio Summit. And it's a lot of bioengineers, synthetic biologists and bioengineer hobbyists, like people without PhDs who really love bioengineering. And it's just a summit of everybody kind of getting together and talking about this thing and talking about what's possible, talking about what's next. And I did my first Bio Summit last year and I just loved it. And it was incredible. And just the fact that there's this coalition of people out there who are spinning ideas in biology is just incredibly exciting to me. And it's a whole new world that I didn't know existed. And now I'm glad it exists, because they're taking away the stigma of it, one person at a time and they're making it accessible. I think the accessibility to bioengineering is a big deal. I think it needs to be way more accessible, way more accessible, because more people who have their hands on it, the more good you can do. And I inherently believe that there is more good out there to be done and more people who are willing to do good. Well, yeah, I started writing this play about two people who live on the moon. And they're inherently running an archive. They're running an archive of the earth on the moon. So they're taking all of these things and all of this information and storing it on the moon just in case the earth goes up, right? And so the play is about them thinking that their job is like as librarians, they're just boring and they're mundane. And then all of a sudden the earth goes up. And they're like, holy, the day that we never thought would happen, would happen. Now what? And the whole play is about that question. Now what? Now what do we do? And throughout the play, they're making sure that the things that they have up on the moon are sustainable, right? Because now there's no pipeline between the earth and the moon. And so as they are doing these things, they're talking about how much sunlight they can get to their plants, because the plants are the lights. And it came from the same kind of idea of bioluminescent African violets, right? And so I have a scene where they're carrying these small buds of trees, but they're all lit up. They're bright. And when you're on stage, you can build up something that looks like a tree and just throw a light in. And in the scene, they're just carrying these things like it's no big deal, because they see them every day, right? But on stage, what happens is the stage is lit by these trees, by these lights. And the question is, what if all our lights were trees, right? What if photosynthesis provided the energy to trees, and when the sun went down, the trees just lit up, and those were our streetlights, right? Rather than taking energy from the grid, rather than burning coal, rather than having these metallic streetlights in the middle of the city, all you have to do is plant a tree, right? That's how I'm using that to inform the storyteller, right? And this idea is just like, oh, we just figured these things. We figured it out. We just grow these trees, right? And so when you see these little baby trees that are lit up, just being put on shelves, and them talking about something mundane, you're just like, what the f**k is that? Like, how does that, what is that, you know? And that's what sparks the imagination. I think a lot of times people try to shed a spotlight on things. It's not the spotlight we're paying attention to. It's what's behind the spotlight, right? It's the things that we don't say, right? It's the things that we don't point to, and sometimes it feels a little bit, you know, unfair, because, you know, take for example, GPS. Nobody ever questions GPS, ever, you know? They're just like, well, I gotta go make a left here, make a left here, right? Well, you are talking about instantaneous information that's being beamed to you from a satellite onto your phone, integrating that into your car, and you making decisions based on that. What? That's crazy. If somebody 50 years ago saw an iPhone that's giving you directions, being from, they think you were from another planet. It's ridiculous. But nobody questions GPS. Everybody's fine with that, right? But the COVID vaccine, there's a microchip in it. Like, you know what I'm saying? Like, it doesn't, it's not, it's not fair that sometimes the things get the spotlight. You know what I'm saying? Like, it always blows my mind that people go to, like, fascist rallies on planes, or drive, and they're using, like, smartphones. And they're talking about how science is evil. You know what I'm saying? Like, you got here through science. Like, what? Right. You know, you're not putting these two things together. Together. Together. You know what I'm saying? Like, you got to put these two things together. So I think it's, like, also making bioengineering the everyday. You know, making it so mundane that you don't even think about it. You know, making a flu vaccine in your house. You know, like, you know, the new flu vaccine just got downloaded to my hypospray. Let me just do that. Let me just take that and move on. Right? Making it exclusive and putting a spotlight on it sometimes breeds the mistrust. Seeing bioengineering as, like, a kitchen. Right? You look at a kitchen, and it's a bioengineering lab. But you're just making food. Right? Looking at your kitchen that way. Right? Putting on, you know, your winter boots, and they're made from mushrooms. Like, it's just another material. It's not super special. It's not, you know, something that we need to be afraid of. It's just like, it's just a pair of boots. You know? No longer burning things. You know what I'm saying? Finding, you know, this idea of waste completely being eradicated from everything that we do. There's nothing wasteful. You know? And we have microbes and algae and all of these things breaking down what we call waste. It's being used by something. You know what I'm saying? And it's being put back in to create this cyclical biology on this planet. That's how this planet came to be. You know? For some reason, we got knocked into a Goldilocks zone where things started growing. You know? By chance. Just by chance. You know? All of a sudden, something biological started taking place. You know what I'm saying? Like, we're not Cybertron. We didn't, you know what I'm saying? Like, we didn't get knocked into a zone where mechanical things started growing. You know? Biology has probably been the beer of the longest out of everything. You know? And it's the thing that we're destroying the fastest. So, I think, you know, my hope is recognizing the beauty and the wonder and the awesomeness of it. And moving towards more of it. And having it be as ubiquitous and as mundane as this market. Yeah. I mean, for me, what I would say is a couple of things. One, this is probably the best time in all of human history to be alive. And as much as it doesn't feel like that, it really is. There are some things that exist right now that no other time in human history could even fathom. So, this time right now is wonderful. And there are so many things to be in awe about and so many wonders you can have. Find the wonder in everything. Just keep that awe. Just be awed by things. Let yourself be awed by things. And the other thing is, there are people out there who are listening to you and who are teaching you that want you to win. Your teachers aren't out here to make you look bad or make you look stupid. You know, your teachers out here, even if it doesn't seem like it, they want you to win the game. They want you to win. So, when you challenge your teachers, know that your challenge, at the end of the challenge, you're all fighting for the same thing, which is your knowledge and you to win the game and you to be the best you that there is. I know a lot of times when you're young, you think you know everything. I thought I knew everything when I was young. Nobody could tell me shit. And I'm from the Bronx. So, I was just like, man, get out of here. What are you going to teach me? But there were teachers out there that I just had to shut up and listen because they wanted me to win the game. And a lot of teachers won't articulate this. A lot of teachers won't tell you that they're wrong. A lot of teachers won't tell you that they have a vested interest in your success. But they do. They have a vested interest in your success. And there are people out there in the world who have a vested interest in your success. Hold on to those people. Hold on. Hold on. Because if you listen and you talk and you dive, you don't have to agree. But if you talk and you listen, you will win the game, whatever game you're playing, right? They want you to win, right? Hold on to the teachers that want you to win. Yeah, a couple of things. One, I'm working with the Science and Entertainment Exchange to try to make optimistic futures stories and involving science something even more accessible. And I'm trying to get as many scientists that I know into that storytelling world and that storytelling space. I'm also working with scientists to help them be better storytellers and connect with people that they're trying to reach emotionally. You know, one of the big things about the COVID vaccine that people don't hear, that I hear, is how much time scientists spend away from their families, how many sleepless nights, you know, how many birthday parties, how many anniversaries, how many weddings. They all miss those things because they were trying to keep us all alive. And we don't hear about that, right? We don't hear about their sacrifice. We don't hear about their struggles. We don't hear about them every day seeing millions of people dying and it keeping them up at night because they go, I need to get to the lab and try this. You know, that was, they are driven, as driven as everyone else is about everything else, right? As driven as Elon Musk is about being an a**hole, right? As driven as finance guys are about the economy. These people were driven to come up with this vaccine. They spent sleepless nights every day and night feeling guilt and stress and pain, taking time away from their families to make this thing. So I'm trying to get that story out there as much as I possibly can. And I think when people really engage with scientists emotionally, they really understand that they're people who have a passion and aptitude for something. And it's not otherworldly, it's not untouchable, you know, it's not intangible. It's like your neighbor, you know, your neighbor is a research scientist and they're spending time away from their families just to make the world better. Yeah. So I'm really working on getting those stories out. And then I'm working on, I'm actually going to do a panel at the Sundance Film Festival this year with Drew, talking about optimistic futures and storytelling. So it's like really getting the word out there that the future doesn't have to be this desolate, barren, dystopian, Mad Max, like we f***ed up the earth. You know, everybody's survived. We're like trying to find water and a shotgun, you know what I'm saying? Like it could really be something quite special. Our streetlights could be trees. Yeah, it could be. And so getting more people to tell those kinds of stories is what I'm working on right now, and I'm really passionate about.