Yeah, sure. Hi, I'm Barbara Junkosa. I'm a Ph.D. community college faculty. I'm also a department chair for biomanufacturing and biotechnology at Maricosta College. That's in northern San Diego. And I am not a bioengineer. By training, I'm a microbiologist. That's what my Ph.D. was in. I studied the bacteria that cause stroke throat infection in humans. And kind of through a roundabout way, ended up teaching biotechnology out here in California. Yeah, so biotechnology chose me, kind of. After grad school, I really wanted to teach. So I came, I was in New York City for grad school. And then I moved to LA, where I was teaching at a community college there. And I was mostly teaching microbiology for students wanting to become nurses. But while I was there, the college decided they would like to pursue a biotechnology training program. And they asked me if I'd launch it. So that was a big lift. But it was really exciting. So I went around basically LA County meeting companies finding like where would our students work. And what I discovered is that a lot of the companies are in that biomanufacturing space. So using cells to produce proteins that are then used in different kinds of medicines. And then when I came, so I was there for five years, started that program. And then I came to San Diego, where I've been for almost six years. And now I only teach biotechnology. So it was a real big switch for me. So I teach students how to operate in a lab, how to do different kinds of lab testing, how to grow cells, how to purify proteins. So really looking at that biomanufacturing side of things. Yeah, so I was super interested in sharks. That was my obsession. Like Shark Week, I was watching every summer, loved it. So for undergrad, I actually studied marine biology, and discovered in the first summer that I'm super seasick. I went on this research cruise, and all I could eat was crackers for like two weeks. It was terrible. So after that, I basically went into a laboratory as a volunteer kind of student worker, where I was studying viruses that infect fish that cause cancers, tumors in fish. So then that kind of got me interested in microbiology. And then that's where I went for grad school. And so it's always kind of science, but it's been migrating to different areas, at least in the kind of biology end of things. Yeah, I mean, what's super fascinating about biotechnology is that it touches our daily lives, whether we think about it or not. So even in like the laundry detergent that you use, generally will have enzymes from bacteria in it that help to break down the dirt and the grime that's in our clothes. So something as simple as washing clothes is touched by biotechnology. And then if you think about greener plastics that are coming out, there's really interesting work around food right now, making lab-based meats. So there's a company down here in San Diego where they're growing cells from fish in petri dishes, and then making them into fish fillets. So it's really fascinating kind of the food revolution that's happening right now. And then of course, just all the amazing kinds of therapeutics for cancer and other kinds of diseases that require us to genetically engineer cells to make a protein that then we can put into people. So it's just really interesting to me, all the different ways that biotechnology touches us, even if we're not aware of it all the time. Yeah, I mean, even like something as simple as jeans that we wear, like denim jeans, they are often a lot of the kind of acid wash will have biological products in it. So it's everywhere, even if we don't know it. Yeah, I mean, there are lots of ethical questions around biotechnology and what we should be using it for, particularly around human medicine. I was recently teaching a class in CRISPR gene editing, and there's lots of controversy in that area. There was a Chinese scientist who CRISPR engineered apparently two or three babies in China. And so that was super controversial. There's just a lot of questions around risk benefit, like how much benefit would outweigh risks of, especially with something like CRISPR, where you could get other edits that are unintended that may lead to things like cancer. There's just a lot of questions around also what we should be curing or not curing. And then, of course, there's always a discussion of designer babies and how far should we let people go in making edits to the next generation. So it's just an area with a lot of promise, but there is also a lot to consider in terms of where we should draw the line of what's ethically acceptable or not. Yeah, I mean, to me, it comes down to a really simple question, like just because you can, should you? And that, to me, is kind of the core of ethics. There's a lot of things we can do right now with biology and the tools that we have, like CRISPR gene editing. It's very precise. So you're right that we have been selecting mates for a long time based on a lot of different factors, and that has an impact. But now we're talking about very quickly and very precisely editing DNA. Because you could say, I want blue eyed babies, and I can find myself a blue eyed husband, but that does not guarantee blue eyed babies. Because the genetics are just more complicated than that. But with CRISPR, I could literally do some precise genome editing, assuming we know all the genes involved. So really, the question comes down to, should we do something? Just because we can do it doesn't necessarily mean that we should do it. And I think a big consideration is around equitable access. So yes, maybe these technologies are available and they're great, but are they accessible to all people? Or is it only a select group of individuals in society that get to benefit from something? And is that the right thing for us as a society? I'm a first generation American, my parents are Cuban immigrants. I did not come from a wealthy background, so I would not have had access to certain things. So I also think about it from that perspective, not just like, should we in general as humanity do something? But then also, if we think that it's beneficial, should we think about equitable access for those technologies? Yeah, that's a good question. I've always been very much in the healthcare space. In graduate school, I was studying human disease. In my biotechnology programs, most of the companies we work with in the area are healthcare-based companies. So I'm always thinking kind of along the lines of healthcare. So I think in 20 years, so one of the most interesting technologies right now is CAR-T cell therapy. And that's where we take immune cells from people who have cancer that's difficult to treat. In the laboratory, we program those immune cells to recognize the cancer cells, and then we transfer them back into the patient. And it's super successful. Those programmed immune cells, they are like heat-seeking missiles. They find the tumor, they destroy it. It's really impressive, the results that they're getting. But here we come with the access, right? It's super expensive, hundreds of thousands of dollars for a patient. And that's because you take the cells from the person, reprogram them, and put them back. So it's really super personalized medicine. But one thing they're moving towards is creating kind of banks of cells that you can just kind of, essentially like in a store, you have these cells available to treat different cancers. And depending on the person's cancer, you take the right cells off the shelf and you can give them to the person, which would make it a lot less expensive and a lot more accessible, and hopefully be able to treat a lot more different types of cancer. So I think that, I mean, I don't know, about 20 years, maybe something like that would be possible to have these kind of off-the-shelf, genetically-programmed cells that people could be given to destroy those specific tumors. And that's what brings these ethical questions to the forefront. It's literally the same kind of gene-editing technology, just applied to different things. So you can't say like, we're going to ban this technology, period. You know, we have to think more, we have to really dissect the different purposes and the different roles that the technology can play. Yeah, I would say, you know, if this is an interesting field for you, I would highly encourage you to just keep going. There's so many different ways that this field can, so many different applications, right, for this field, so many different ways you can impact humanity. So if it's something of interest to you, just don't be dismayed by the math, because that's always the part that, you know, people feel like, I'm not good at math, good at math, which is not really a thing. Math just takes practice, and you get better over time. I mean, even me, I'm a community college faculty, I teach this all the time, but if I'm away from the classroom for like six months and I come back, I'm so rusty. Like, I need to sometimes remind myself of things. So, you know, I just always encourage students, like, follow your interests and don't be discouraged by what you might perceive as these huge barriers. There's lots of resources available. I mean, YouTube, nowadays, you can find videos to help you understand all sorts of stuff, but then whatever college you go to or university, there's going to be lots of support services that you just have to seek out, and it's okay to ask for help. Yeah, I mean, what I would say is, it's still hard to find role models sometimes, especially amongst faculty, and so, you know, if I think back to my college days, I really have to think hard here, maybe like one or two faculty of color when I was going through the process. I'm not sure it's changed that much, which is a sad thing to say in some ways. I think, you know, it depends on where you go to college or university, but what I would say is, you have to find community. Like, there'll be other students around that are students of color, and I've always found that that community can be super supportive as you're going through this journey, and, you know, nowadays, they're, like I said, with YouTube, you can find role models of color, which is great, but sometimes in the classroom, it's not as evident. So, the other thing I would say is that there's lots of programs to help students of color advance in STEM, of which I was a beneficiary when I was in college. There are, you know, summer research opportunities. There are sometimes scholarships you can find. So, again, it's kind of that don't be afraid to ask for help. Like, you know, go to financial aid offices and ask for information. Talk to faculty. Even if they're not faculty of color, they may have, you know, information about resources available. So, I just, I think the key thing is to not be intimidated, which is easier said than done, and just to go out there and, you know, interact with other students, ask for help, share resources, because that's where I think you're going to get the support you need to kind of push forward, because it's not easy, especially if you're first gen to college, and you don't have, you know, people at home that can help you navigate this crazy process sometimes. There's, higher ed is kind of a little bubble in its own sometimes, and you have to learn how to navigate that. So, you know, anyone that, I had friends who were not people of color, but came from families where they had, like, college educated parents who helped them navigate, so then I kind of piggybacked and learned from them how to navigate, and that's, you know, that's a really helpful resource. Yeah, absolutely. I think it depends. Depends on what you want to do. You know, I think the reality is, if you want to work on the technical side, you need some sort of formal training. Yes, there are now websites where you can buy stuff to do at home, and maybe some students can afford that, and kind of learn those skills. For a lot of people, it's probably still cost prohibitive, like you just can't afford those kinds of things. So, I think on the technical side, having access to equipment and learning techniques, it's not something you can do necessarily on YouTube. With that said, I don't think you need a four-year degree. There's lots of community colleges, I've taught at two of them, that have biotechnology programs. You know, we're in California. In California, it's $46 a unit, and you can go and learn all the skills that you need to get entry-level employment. So, you know, from my perspective, like, you need some education on the technical side. I don't think you need a four-year degree. I think you could do a certificate, you could do an associate degree, you can get started, you can always come back. And then there are places, you know, there are paths where some people might choose to do the four-year degree. Some people might choose to go even beyond that. And that opens different kinds of opportunities, of course. But I think there's places for people along that whole pathway, from kind of community college all the way to graduate school. If you're not on the technical side, again, I think it depends on what your skills and interests are. You know, what I'm always telling students is, biotech is an amazing industry, and you don't have to be a scientist to be part of it. You could be in marketing, you could be in finance, you can be an accountant, you could be a lawyer, you could be, you know, someone who works in human resources, you could be someone who purchases supplies for the company. Like, there's so many different support roles. So I think depending on what the role is, you may or may not need a college degree. I know a lot of companies like to see a college degree. But again, that's why I say, like, community college is a really great place to start. Oh, at this point in my life, I would probably study humanities, because I've just, I've enjoyed sciences, but I feel like I've learned so much in that area. And now I would like to, like, round out my education with something more on the humanities side. Maybe, I don't know, psychology or philosophy or something. But I really enjoyed college, and I enjoyed everything I learned. So I'm just one of those people that if I could go to college forever, I totally would. And I just study different things. I mean, it's had a huge impact in medicine, and I don't think that's going to go away. But if I was thinking kind of like a new emerging area would probably be around plastic substitutes. So many of our plastics are made from petroleum products, fossil fuels, which of course have all contributed to climate change. And we just have a lot of plastics that just will never biodegrade, and they're just in these huge heaps on land, and also like these plastic islands and the oceans. So I feel like there's been a lot of work recently, and it continues around looking at bio-based plastics, or even using things like fungus to grow. You know, you grow fungus into these like blocks that you can use for cushion for shipping. So I think that that's a space where biotech can really disrupt in a positive way that we haven't yet seen very much of. You know, overall, I would just reiterate that there's like a space in biotech for everybody, regardless of what your interests are. You know, even if you're an artist, you could create the renderings of like cells and what they look like. And I just think there's so many opportunities for people to get involved in biotech and bioengineering, even if it's not on the science side. And it's just, it has such incredible potential to impact our lives in so many different ways. And I just hope that, you know, the students who listen to this are encouraged to keep going and keep pushing forward and just exploring and not get too intimidated by kind of the ivory tower of academia. And just remember that we all start in the same place, you know, which is what I always tell my students when I'm teaching them lab techniques. I say, you know, I'm going to do something. I'm going to show you something and it's going to look really easy. And when you do it, it's not going to feel so easy and that's okay. I've just done this literally thousands of times. And if you do it thousands of times, it's going to be super easy. So, you know, I think sometimes we look at our professors and we just think they were magically born that way. Like they just knew all of this or they could do all these things, but we all really start from the beginning always. So, you know, don't get discouraged and just keep trying.