Bioengineering for the biopharmaceutical industry. I don't do it myself because I'm in this role of CEO, but I used to actually manufacture biologic drugs on the manufacturing floor. And I used to also work with the bioengineering team to create or recreate or improve those manufacturing processes. So that's the bioengineer I am. I'm not a, what's the other one? A biomedical engineer is different, you know, that's more for dealing with doctors and whatever innovative ways you may come up with a different surgery or a different procedure. Maybe playing with something in the lab last minute. So that, you know, to give you an example of that, that's kind of how these immunosuppressant drugs and cell therapies came about. It was life scientists and R&D and stuff dealing with that stuff. But the people that kind of did it first was the biomedical engineers on site at the hospital. As far as a patient coming in and having an autoimmune disease and you having to figure that out. And so autoimmune diseases for a number of years, I'll probably say my cousin, I won't say his name, but I have two cousins with autoimmune disease called bubble boy disease with a, you know, the immune system attacks itself and they're very sensitive. When the oldest one was younger and he first got diagnosed, you had to do straight bone marrow transplants and we had to stock up the bone marrow and all that stuff at the hospital and they would do those treatments on site. Fast forward to this younger one that's about, I think it's about 10 years difference between maybe more than that, between his little brother, who's a twin. He's a fraternal twin with his sister and he has it. And so fast forward today where you have these treatments that you don't have to do the bone marrow transplants. Now you got the drugs such as the viral and gene vectors and cell therapies that you can just do with a syringe on the spot at home on a regimen. So I say that to say that, you know, it's different types of bioengineering, biomedical has definitely been just as instrumental as a traditional bioengineering for biopharmaceutical drugs, as well as bioengineering for agriculture, as well as bioengineering for the biofuels industry. But I'm in the biopharmaceuticals and so generating, creating those processes, improving those processes and actually manufacturing the drug themself is where I fit in. Oh, you know what? Y'all going to be mad because I didn't necessarily choose it. I fell into it. And I liked it later. I actually was at the time where I kind of fell into it. I was working at Walter Reed Army Institute of Research doing bench top research at the Naval Base in Silver Spring, now at the hospital. And at that time I was in the molecular, I think I was in the molecular pathology department and we were investigating, you know, I'm about to say COVID, not COVID, what's the one with the dengue virus, West Nile virus, thank you, that's what I couldn't think of. And then around that time, that's when the study of omega-3s and omega-6s and how they affected breast cancer. Those are the things that I was looking at at the time. And so our PI, who I won't name, who still works for the federal government, got caught with our hand in the cookie jar, misappropriated funds, federal government sent down, I mean, they sent down Army lieutenants and sergeants and higher ups down to the base, Navy, I'm saying for the Navy and Marines, I think we have one of each, come and sit with us and investigate us. And ironically at the time, you know, the team was mostly black and brown. Most of us was from a local university between Howard University in Maryland, University of Baltimore, all that stuff. And we didn't know. We think we just being interviewed, what we do every day. And so we're telling them, hey, we do this and that every day. This is the time we do this. We just talking. We don't know because we're not in the service, we're all civilians. And so I kind of found out I was doing an investigation of her misappropriated funds. And so she started firing everybody. So me being the smart person I am, I was like, well, shit, I'm just going to wait till she fire me, but I'm going to get another job. And then I could just work two jobs, you know, I was partying six days in a week, got a reputation, you know, party schedule to keep up with in DC. And so I end up getting a job through a temp agency at Human Genome Sciences in Rockville, which is now GSK. And I had two jobs for about three months. And she was like, you know, finally, she's like, oh, well, it looks like you've already secured another place of employment, you know, go focus on that, whatever. But I had already, you know, caked up within that three months. And so that's how I kind of fell into it. And so when I first got to Human Genome and doing it, I didn't like it because, you know, working at Walter Reed, benchtop, I got my white coat, I got my name on my coat. I make my own schedule alongside, you know, meet the, meet my deadlines for my reports and my experiments and be on time with things. It didn't matter what time I came to work, it didn't matter what time I left, right? It's all based on my, you know, progress and my productivity. So it was an adjustment to work in a team like environment and to start at the bottom, right? Because even though big pharma and biopharma is life sciences, it's very corporate, right? So, you know, life sciences, your version of starting in the mail room, the version of corporate starting in the mail room and corporate, but life science is starting at the bottom. And at that time, it's being a gopher. You know, you had stainless steel equipment, you had unilateral facilities where you can only go in one way, come out one way, one side is this, one side is that. So once you get out of one area, you had to walk all the way around and re-gout in. So I was highly irritated, I was pretty vocal about it. And then I ended up getting a mentor, Sandra Brown, who still works at GSK Rockville today. And she kind of pulled me aside and helped me better understand things as far as the manufacturing facility, but more importantly, gave me some training to give me more autonomy, to get me more engaged. At the time, I was like, I'm not doing this, it was four o'clock for 30, I believe it on the dot. People know, you know, that work in biopharma or life science, especially in manufacturing, know that you're at the beg of the process, right? So if that step ain't done, we got to wait to do that step later today, you had to stay late and do it. Oftentimes, they'll put us up in hotels doing running stores to stay at a hotel. We had a hotel, like it was kind of across the street from Human Genome at that time or down the street, I can't remember. And so often they would put us up in hotels, so people didn't, you know, outside, your families and stuff didn't understand that. So people thought I was lying, they were like, oh, you spend the night at somebody's house, you're doing all this shit. I'm like, nah, like here's the receipt, like that's a hotel receipt, don't no job put you at no hotel for like no week or whatever, because sometimes there'll be a snowstorm, we had to stay there the whole week. But anyway, I definitely fell into it. And once I got more responsibility, definitely, definitely, I can't thank Sandra Brown enough for what she did for me, to get me engaged. And that just sparked curiosity. From there, I started learning things outside and really leaning into it, especially when I got diagnosed with a chronic condition before I had to finally go, you know, take time off. I kind of finally just like leaned into it, got more and more responsibility and just kind of fell in love with it. And it wasn't just about the bioengineering or the manufacturing piece of it. I think for me, I fell in love with it because of the extended benefits of it. And then the extended challenges of it, right. So I'm at a point where I'm just making these drugs. One of the drugs I was making at the time was still in clinical trials, but it was for anthrax and we had the anthrax deal at that time. And so we were stockpiling federal federal government. And so we was doing that. And then I was also part of a team who was manufacturing a drug for lupus. So that's how I kind of got my CDMO field, because at that time, and I think they still do that. I worked at the small scale pilot plant and human genome. And so that's where we tested out different manufacturing processes for, excuse me, different drugs and pretty much everything in that plant was either at the preclinical stage or the clinical stage. So we were doing different drugs, different, different points of the year. And so the lupus drug is what really got me because I went to a some type of seminar, whatever, sit down thing at the company at the time. And they were talking about the human clinical trials. And they mentioned that they'd recorded, I mean, they did not recruit any African-American women. They only recruited women from India. And so I raised my hand, I said, well, you know, I ain't no expert, but lupus has a high rate of occurrence in African-American women. So, you know, why don't y'all include, you know, African-American women in the study? And they said, well, it's simple. It's just easier to get women from India. And so when I, you know, started to take a deeper dive again on my own, because I'm a nerd and I was like, oh no, this is a, this is a financial thing and a regulatory thing. You know, you can go to India, get away with certain things, make the data look good, and you'll get the FDA approved because you want to be in an American market. You also know the history of working with African-Americans, knowing that you're probably not going to do them the right way, right? And or knowing that most likely this drug is not going to treat them because it wasn't discovered for them or by them. Right. And so when I learned that, I said, oh, I got to, I got to fix this. And the other thing I noticed was the impact, not just at Human Genome, but later in my career, especially when I got to Amgen in Thousand Oaks, California, working at the headquarters and I worked at a pilot plant there at the time. But I start paying attention to the neighborhoods and the people that work there and how all the white people had a house, three kids and a dog and two cars and college is paid for. And I said, well, if they can do this for their communities and, you know, what is the suburb before it becomes a suburb? It's a cornfield or it's the hood, right? It's never a suburb starting off, it's either rural or super urban and they clinked it up. And so at that time, the Thousand Oaks was more rural. A lot of cows out there and they had, you know, all these companies start moving in. So the biggest employers of Thousand Oaks at that time when I worked there was 3M, the people that make the tape, Amgen and Baxter. And what's that sauce? Let me get it, hold on. You're going to laugh at this. Damn, I ain't even got no room. It's a red chili sauce, a red chili sauce with the green top. Not the sriracha, right? Yes, the sriracha plant was in Thousand Oaks and then you had the farms. So coming down the highway, one side, you smell the sriracha, the other side, you might be smelling cows. Strawberries and oranges is what you, I mean, not oranges. What else is out there? Maybe it's not oranges. You had strawberries or something else. I forget. But mainly strawberries, which you can smell going down. I think it was a highway, I think it's five, highway five. That must have been an insane smell, just for the record. That mixture, but it was beautiful to see everybody working and being productive and poverty being really, you rarely saw a homeless person out there. You rarely saw, even at the sleazy motels in Thousand Oaks, you rarely saw somebody standing outside and conducting that type of business, if you understand what I'm saying. So for me, I was like, you know, I want to I want to do something similar. So I started making my plan for the company on paper back in 2014 or 2013, really. And figuring out where do I need to go to be ready to execute my company at the time? What education do I need and what other experience do I need? And so that's when I start making sure I put myself in position to get on the manager or management track. It was mentorship a little bit, but not so much. And the reason why I say not so much, because obviously I'm doing something that nobody's done. I'm the first African-American woman to do a second African-American person to do it, you know, six to eight years after Dr. Percy LaVon Julian in Chicago and Oak Park. But for me, I think, you know, once once I went to that lupus event, figured it out and then my mind was rolling like, what, like, how can I do this? And so at that time, probably about a year later from that point of that lupus event that I went to, I was still working there. That's when they just came out with single use equipment. It was Xcelerx. Xcelerx was the first person. Xcelerx got acquired by GE. Now today it's Citiva. But at that time, Xcelerx just came on the market and I'm not the finest, but the slogan was, you can literally set up your factory at a strip mall. That's what they said. So when I'm looking at some equipment and at that time they were still, you know, had the plastic shields around the plastic or the single use equipment, you stuck your gloves and they still have, they still sell that way if you want it that way. But at that time, that's what they were selling to say that you can literally do this in the parking lot if you didn't have, you know, I mean, a strip mall, if you didn't have the greatest HVAC system, that box over the bioreactor with the gloves was the solution to protect the product and protect you. So I ramped that shit up. I went to my manager, not really understanding the hierarchy of corporate at that time. And we had the same last name, so I used to tell him like, yo, aunt, like aunt, right? His last name was Williams, Anthony Williams. I was like, he'd be like looking at me crazy because I'd knock on his door and be like, yo, check this out. Like, did you see this? I was like, yo, you need to rip everything out, get rid of this. Not understanding regulatory all the way at that time, you know, as far as the facility built out and things of that nature. And so he looked at me, it was like, you need to go back to work. And I didn't. I went back to my desk. I had all this sprawled out of binders and articles and things on my desk and my cubicle. So I probably took over somebody else cubicle with all my shit, really trying to figure this out. And then I called Accelerate myself. I mean, I had them revved up like I had some big investment coming in and like I was really good, like set this thing up. And then that's when I got diagnosed and got sick. So I was there to stop. But from that point on and then fast forward to looking at the neighborhoods at Thousand Oaks where I worked in and what that looked like. And I was like, you know what, I can do this. I just got to put these pieces together. And the crazy thing is, you know, what most people don't know, especially this generation, no disrespect to this generation, but because everything's so accessible to this generation. And I had it, too. I guess one of my, what am I? I'm a millennial. Oh, yeah, yeah. Thirty, I'll be thirty nine next week. Twenty four. But by what is it? I think it's Gen Z now. Yeah. Gen Z had everything at a fingertip. So because they were so used to looking up things for what they want. Right. If it's the new shoes, sneakers, the latest song, the gospel, TMZ, they look it up. But when it comes to looking up things that can help them make money, I don't think they necessarily made that connection yet outside of being an influencer because the influencer can do things themselves. Right. You can make your own content. You have all these tools when it comes to entrepreneurship and doing something on the scale that I'm doing. It takes a team. It takes a mind that tends to think strategically and collaboratively, meaning not just who I'm going to do this with, but what's going to be the benefit for us to do this together? What is the exchange? And so those things they're not going to teach you in school. Hell, they don't even teach you that in the MBA program. I don't have an MBA, but I got a master's in business from for Full Sailor MS. And even in that program, they don't necessarily teach you precisely. They talk about it, but they don't lean into them to say this is probably the most critical things that you can learn and understand in order to be successful to start a venture capital backed company. That is the difference. Small business. You can raise me a booster as you can take your 401k, go run out of buildings, set up, make burgers or whatever widget that you make from that standpoint, go get a Copacker or whatever it is. You know, some of these terms that you probably see on Shark Tank, which I do recommend. I watch a lot. I've been watching Shark Tank since day one, so I learned a lot about pitching from that in different terms. But those are the things that I think people, the generation today that's graduated from college or entering college in order to do something different, in order to be successful on a magnitude where you're a million dollar to a billion or trillion dollar business, you have to go get that information yourself. You have to be willing to humble yourself and sit during your free time and Google and read because everything is not on Google. Some of the best books I'll show you right now. So I know this guy is not a popular guy right now, but some of the can you see that Peter Thiel? Let me tell you, I see. Yep. Peter Thiel there down at the bottom. Yeah. Yes. You can see that, right? Yeah. And this is my second, second time reading this book. These are the things that you got to do. And you also got to read books like this, you know what I'm saying? Tarray with balance to understand and get your personal mental health correct. Right. So this is this third book. I read every book this man puts out. He's still my pastor today when I was in when L.A. And then you also got to know, you know, background to give you that fight. Right. You got to read that, right? This is a new one. I think they published it right when he passed. But this John Lewis joint carry on me. You also got to stick to your roots, you know what I mean? I got that one. I haven't read this one yet. It's still sitting here. I got to get to it. But unconventional reads like this really give you drive. I don't care if you're black, white or whatever. When you read people to have unconventional says like Gucci Mane and Migo. Shout out to take our rest in peace. Quality control. And I don't get on top. But look at that story. Look how with Motown, a guy similar to me came from manufacturing cars and applied that business model to music to full circle the next generation of Motown, which is quality control. And now these guys are a partnership. Look at that. You're not going to get that from school, one of them, whether it was coach K or the other one, I apologize. I don't remember his name. One of them had to have that thought process to get an idea that making that deal with Motown was essential. And shout out to Ethiopia. I used to work with Tina Davis when I was working at Moonlight in the music industry. So that's how I made Ethiopia. But look how that came full circle, how you can use unconventional and conventional wisdom to do something great and to fill in the gap and fulfill a need, right? Nobody's done that right. Even the way Master P did it, the way what was that? I forgot something, House Records down in Houston. I was raised in Houston. And then you had Def Jam with Russell Simmons. All those cats did something unconventional and quality control took all those situations and they created it wrong and then ran it back full circle to the originator with Motown. Right. Same with, you know, with what Tyler Perry's doing. Like, I don't know if y'all seen the latest movie he got on Netflix, which is very different from his other works. But I knew he had that in him. I've been waiting on that. I've been telling everybody, like people hate on Tyler Perry. But he did the same thing I did. He went through the play route. He figured out how to draw a crowd. He figured out what his niche market wanted to see all the time. And then when he took his business from the next moment, from the Chitlin Circle of Pays to the film industry and did his deal with, what is it, Lionsgate? He also looked at what Spike Lee did, right?