Hi, I am Sophia Wang. I am the co-founder and chief of culture at MycoWorks. And as far as what kind of bioengineer I am, I would say I am a cultural engineer of people within a biotechnology company. Sure. Yeah. So as chief of culture of MycoWorks, I set the values of the company and the culture that we're building here. And I make sure that we operationalize those values in the way that we work together as people and coworkers, and also in our partnerships with brands and consumers out in the world. So as far as an ethos of bioengineering and how that applies in a metaphoric way, I guess, to what you typically think of as bioengineering, I think of it as everything is a living system and everything can be considered a living organism. So if you think of a startup as a baby company that has very basic capabilities that you're trying to steer and grow into a grown-up company that has really robust systems for supporting everything that you need to do as a company, whether it's problem-solving technical issues with the product, or it's making sure that everyone gets paid on time regularly, all of that are skills that an organism that is a young company needs to learn. And so I think of the company very much as a living organism that is growing. And why not? Because it's made up of people. We've got 160 people working for MicroWorks today. We started out as a couple people in a basement in an art studio in San Francisco. So for me, it's very much a human system that has been growing continuously and will continue to do so. If you think about how that translates to bioengineering in the more traditional sense, you absolutely have to think about your systems in the same way. You have a biological system that is responsive to environmental, physical inputs and produces its own outputs, has its own growth dynamics, has its own chemical reactions, can be looked at at the atomic level, can be looked at at the macro level. And so how do you make sure that you have a handle on all of that in order to steer in a beneficial and non-destructive way? I think growing culture is very similar in that respect. There's ethics and responsibility, and also mechanics and analysis and close observation and responsiveness to relational dynamics that's involved in all of that. Sure. Well, it maybe helps to talk about the origin story of the company. This is an example of where our technology started. And if I had a mushroom in my other hand, I don't actually have one right now, that would be the other origin. So essentially, MycoWorks is making a mycelial option for leather. And the products that we make today, and we actually, our product is more like this, which is a sheet of material. So this is one of our finished sheets of mycelium leather alternative. And we sell that to brands, and they make stuff like this. So this is one of the direct consumer products that we released this year with a hat designer in LA named Nick Fouquet. And this is 100% our material. So this is mycelium. And backing up, mycelium, for those who don't know, refers to the root fibers of mushrooms. So if you think of mushrooms as the fruit of an organism, mycelium is the, it's kind of like the roots and the branches and the stem. It's the vegetative part of the organism, and mushrooms are the fruiting body. So where this all started was back in the 90s and the 2000s, my co-founder, Phil Ross, was starting to use mycelium as a material for art and design, and was making, essentially, structural materials, architectural materials, that he would cast into form. So he'd build a mold, put your wood sawdust or wood chips, plus mycelium spawn, plus nutrition and a little water, and you can grow mycelium into any shape that you want. And it's lightweight, and it's strong, and it seems like an amazing material for design and architecture and art objects. So Phil was working in the space of art and art objects and art exhibits for 10, 15 years or so, and started to get interest from companies around the world that actually wanted to use these materials in their products. So Phil and I had connected in the Bay Area in the, you know, 2007 or so as artist collaborators. We worked together on an exhibit on the history of biotechnology as something that humans have been practicing for a long time. If you think about plant cultivation or like baking bread or making beer, like that's all biotech, right? So we put an exhibit together based on the history of biotechnology. Had a good working relationship around 2012. Phil's like, hey, there's companies around the world that want to use, you know, I want to use my art material in their products, so let's start a company so that we can make this technology available to these companies, these global corporations. So that's how the company was started, and it's, we founded it in 2013. So in 2023, that will be 10 years of basically trying to scale this technology from an artist's handcraft, something that Phil was doing in his art studio by hand with his artist assistants, into something that we can replicate at a large scale in a factory with semi-mechanization and semi-automation. Yeah, it's been a while, right? We make beautiful things with artists and brands now. This is a limited edition pin that we made to commemorate some award I won this year, and you know, we have, you know, it's a material that can be fabricated and worked with like leather, so we like to show objects like this to show that you can sew and fabricate and glue it the way that you can with leather, and it's non-animal, non-plastic, so a lot of brands are interested in it. So that's what we do, and there's a lot more to say, but I'll pause. Yeah, yeah, well I would say that we do have a lab at Microworks, but that's not where their product is getting made. The lab is where we are doing technology development, so either understanding, you know, from a mycological perspective, you know, how the species of fungus that we're using can be steered in the way that we want. We do have a manufacturing facility here in Emeryville, California where the product gets made, and so it's not so much a day in the lab as it is a day in the factory, and that basically starts with preparing your substrate that the fungus wants to eat, and that's really just wood chips, wood sawdust. You amend with things that are going to make it optimal for the fungus to grow. That's typically a little bit of water, some nutrients. You put it into an autoclave, so something that can go up to to basically sterilize the substrate to make sure that there's no competing organisms in it. They're going to compete with our fungus for the food. Once it cools down the substrate, we inoculate it with fungal spawn, and it gets put into a tray, about two by three feet tray. That's the size of our current unit. It has a lid, and it allows for gas exchange and also allows for us to control the gas exchange as well as temperature, humidity, and light, of course, in the room in which it's growing. Then the tray moves through our storage and racking system for a number of weeks, and there's some magic things that happen to what we do while it's growing to make sure that it is grown to the strengths and the specifications that we want. This is a really interesting step because this is a stage at which we want customization. For instance, some customers that we work with want a certain kind of strength or flexibility in the material. As the mycelium is growing by basically colonizing the wood substrate, and then it effectively grows a skin, or we call it a hide, on top of the wood substrate mass. This is a point at which we can customize. Some brands want a certain strength or flexibility. We can add a textile layer onto the substrate and the mycelium that's growing. The mycelium will grow up through the textile to interweave itself into the textile to create a true composite. Then you have a mycelium sheet that has embedded and woven into it another textile. We've done a lot of cool things, experiments, just to show that we can do it. We've grown mycelium sheet with a copper fiber so that you can have a wired smart fabric, or we've grown a mycelium sheet with a piece of Kevlar fabric so you can approach a bulletproof mycelium sheet. We've done a lot of cool things like that. Anyway, you grow it for a period of weeks in this two-by-three tray. When you are ready to harvest, you basically peel the sheet off the top. I've had it described to me sometimes as like, imagine a sheet cake with a thick layer of icing on the top. Imagine you could pull that whole icing layer off. Then we stabilize it. We essentially add a fat to it, a fat liquor. Then we send it to our tannery partners who currently are all based in Europe. They are really skilled and knowledgeable in terms of finishing leather for the fishery industries. They are transferring their knowledge about how to finish and tan and dye leather to how to finish and tan and dye mycelium. It's a very interesting bio. It's a natural material. It is not literally animal collagen. Molecularly, it's different. There's a lot to learn, but we've managed to create beautiful material and products that look and feel like leather. Then also, some people who are looking really closely or who know leather really well are like, this is totally new and very exciting. That's the process. I like that 10 years ago or 15 years ago, even when Phil was first really starting to work with mycelium, no one really knew what mycelium was. There weren't as many other artists, designers, scientists, entrepreneurs working with mycelium as a material. People have known about mycelium essentially as a supplement, a health supplement, or mushrooms have culinary use, mushrooms have pharmaceutical use. People hadn't explored mycelium as a design material or something structural. In the 10, 15 years since, we now have a whole field of companies, startups, artists, and designers who are working with mycelium as an art material or as a material for industry. For me, that's the most exciting thing, which is out of this one person's art practice and our efforts as a company that was early in the space, we've now inspired an entire new materials science field. There's a lot to discover. It's going to keep people busy for a very long time. There's so much to learn about mushrooms and fungi in general. You think about the fact that fungi were not classified as their own kingdom until 1969 or something like that. We've studied plants and animals for much longer time than we've studied fungi as its own specific kingdom, an organism that is neither plant nor animal for very clear and important reasons. That's what's exciting to me, which is this is just the beginning of a new field of study and discovery and applications. It just feels limitless as far as where mycelium can go in the world and beyond. There's the more obvious answer where it has very, very broad adoption. It has that impact where you're essentially removing or mitigating some of the environmental impacts that you have from the manufacturing or disposal of traditional materials and products made with traditional materials. For me, because I'm a philosopher and I think about culture in a very broad sense, like ideological sense, I think that the large-scale impact to me is a shift in mindset in terms of how you make things with natural resources. There's the current model that is, if you think about anything that's fossil fuel-based, anything that's made from plastic, anything that depends on a monocrop farming system, it's a system that is essentially extractive and exerts a heavy toll on the environment and the ecosystem that supports the production of whatever the resources that you're harvesting. Mycelium as a material basically is mimicking one of the most important recycling and transformative processes on earth. Mycelium and fungi in general break down, digest, and make bioavailable all carbon-based matter. That's why you can use fungi to clean up oil spills and to mitigate radioactive waste sites. They basically just can process carbon-based matter, break it down, and make the biochemical components bioavailable to the environment again. I think that it starts with close observation of your environment and think about your environment not just as like the natural world, but what is your human social environment. Any situation environment you're in, whether it's a team that you're on at school or a club or service organization that you contribute to or a part-time job that you have or a project that you're really excited about with a bunch of other people working on it, there are dynamics in play in terms of resources. How are you making it possible? What materials are you using? Who's paying for it? Whose time is going into organizing it? How do people collaborate and deal with conflict in that space? How do people share power? Who's in the room? Who's not? Why are they in the room? Why are they not in the room? Who is this for? Who is it not for? This is how you get to the most important questions of the power dynamics and the cost of what you're doing and also who you're in service to and to what end. For me, that's transferable to whatever you feel like doing, whether it's very literally in the bioengineering, biosciences space or if it's in a more humanities, social sciences-focused space. You want to make sure that you understand how your system works and whether you're okay with how the system works. If you're not, then what can you introduce or change or be an agent of in order to steer it more towards the system that you want to see? For me, I mean, I am the easiest way to talk about my personal ethics is that they're grounded. They're materialist. It's materialism. What do I mean by that? There's materials, actual physical goods, and then there's also the sense of the material wealth, money, resources, the things of value that make other things possible that serve as a channel for just making actions happen or making transactions happen. I'm a materialist in the sense that I think in terms of real, hard, physical realities, and that extends to the body. If you think about what does a person need for material survival, that's very basic, like food, water, shelter.