So, my name is Carrie McInturff, I'm a special agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the San Francisco Field Office, and currently I'm actually carrying two hats, I'm acting as a fellow as a National Security Affairs fellow for Stanford University's Hoover Institution, so I'm a special agent in my day job, and then just doing this as a side project for about nine months. So, I like to say that I'm a bioengineer to your leader. I am passionate about science, and I've spent 15 years of my career working with citizen scientists, DIY biologists, and then all the way up to, you know, subject matter experts in academia. So, I've been working with bioengineers to just try to make this world as advanced as possible scientifically and technologically, while also ensuring that we're leading the globe in innovation safely. So, my goal primarily as an FBI agent is to ensure we have kind of this biosecurity framework about where bioengineering is going, because it's such an advanced science and it's exponentially growing daily. Well, besides the fact that I have, you know, dogs that are licking my face every morning, my family is obviously the first thing to get me out of bed, but ultimately, I have a 15-year-old daughter, and so in my mind, the way that science is advancing and the curiosity behind that and knowing that my daughter's going to see things that I've never seen in my career is really what excites me, and just seeing the potential. I'm a huge Mad Max, I'm a huge Blade Runner fan, anything, you know, Altered Carbon, all of these kind of advanced movies and scientific or sci-fi shows. So, the fact that, you know, that bioengineering has the ability to advance and involve our species, and that's something that I might witness in my lifetime, but something my child will definitely witness is very exciting to me. So, I think the biggest concern I have is mostly just that we lose the optics on ethics. So, the whole, you know, I'm a nurse, my background is in nursing, and so the mindset of first do no harm, you know, that's something that I hope that we can maintain as a, you know, it's just a baseline, that ethical baseline in science. The advancement is so insane that we have to really make sure that, you know, that our ethics are what are driving us. So, yeah, just really that we lose the optics on ethics and doing good versus harm. The possibilities with engineering humans and medicine, our environment, food, manufacturing, all of these things are endless. So, if we don't have that ethical baseline and that ethical foundation, that mindset is what's concerning to me. I want science to advance, I want to protect it at the same time. I think from a national security standpoint, especially when you look at, you know, what the FBI is doing and what the government agencies are doing as a whole, our concern is that we have, you know, foreign adversaries that are trying to use this advancement in science against us. So, when we look at, you know, historically nuclear weapons, biology, I would argue, would be, you know, the next phase in our nuclear weapon concerns. So, if we don't have that ethical framework, then I think that's something that's going to be concerning, but I'm all for the advancement. Yeah, I mean, you know, it's, again, it's first do no harm. The sky's the limit, though. I think if you limit yourself to the obvious, then we're not going to ever grow as a species. I think we have to think big, but we also have to ensure that when we're thinking big, we're understanding what that means for us evolutionarily. Like, if we're going to advance as a species, we also don't want to completely wipe out our species. So, I think my biggest advice to the generation that's coming up, because they definitely have it more figured out than us Gen Xers, but really, it's looking at anything as possible at this point, but we also saw, you know, we've seen what happens in an evolution when things go wrong. So, we just want to make sure that we're figuring out what our baseline is, but don't limit yourself to what we've done today. I think there's just so many more questions out there, and if we stop asking questions, we're never going to advance. Medicine, pharmaceuticals, I think that, like I said, I was a nurse first, so watching science advanced healthcare or advanced healthcare is something that's super important to me. Making access to healthcare affordable, not just for those that can actually afford intervention, but we're looking at cures for disease process that, you know, only if you were the elite would you be able to actually afford this intervention. So, I think with the advancement that bioengineering and synthetic biology is providing is an opportunity for understanding and curing disease process that, you know, things that we never would have thought possible, like cancer and Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, a lot of neurological disorders that, you know, historically, at least, you know, as I was growing up, it's something that we just knew was going to be the death of us, right, eventually, we're all going to die of cancer. So, I think that really in 20 years, we're going to see advancements in medicine that we never dreamed of, and I think that that's going to be amazing. The one thing that I think is so important is to acknowledge the fact that there are billions of discoveries out there just waiting for your imagination, and I think that as a young student, we go into this mindset that we're so placed in a box of education, we're forced to take certain classes, we're forced to learn certain things, because that creates that foundation of advanced learning, right? But if we don't keep asking questions and if we don't keep understanding that there's still a lot of discoveries out there that nobody has even thought about, then we limit ourselves. So, imagination is something that I think is so important, and I think we lose sight of it so early because we're teaching kids to read and write from a very, very early age and we're not focusing on the arts and music and the things that actually make our brains work in an imaginative way. So, I would say, you know, again, remember, there's a ton of discoveries waiting out there for you. It's just going to take some ingenuity and some imagination. Find somebody in a career that excites you, get their advice. The one thing that I think was super important to me was to find an advisor and someone that actually, you know, cared about the career that they were in and were passionate about it so that that trickled down to me and made me excited. And then just, again, keep asking questions, because the more questions we ask, you know, the less we're limiting ourselves to, you know, this boxed framework of education. Yeah, let me answer the second one first. I honestly, there is nothing that I would change about the way that I did my career. I am one of those individuals that gets bored very easily. So I actually went in as a pre-med and I only wanted to be a doctor. And then I took my first forensic anthropology class and I was like, screw medicine, I'm done. It's time for a change. So I actually, I spent a lot of years trying to figure out what I wanted to do. And I just kept working and I took some time off from school. And I, you know, I just, again, I found my passion. I wouldn't change anything. To say that college is mandatory for this, I think we're in a day and a time where I disagree with that. In fact, I encourage my daughter now, you know, take a break. College is not everything, you know, you can learn so much with just life experience. And I really think travel is important. I think just getting out of our own bubbles is important to learn, you know, different cultures, different aspects of, you know, different people's opinions. So I think for my career specifically as an FBI agent, unfortunately or fortunately, yes, you have to have a college degree. You have to have a lot of work experience. It usually does require an advanced degree. But we have a lot of individuals that work for the FBI, that work for the government as a whole that actually don't have college degrees. There are professional support staff that do amazing things. We have support staff that are trained in different aspects of, you know, surveillance and different techniques that don't actually require a degree. So I think it's really just about finding your passion. And if college works, and if it works for you as an individual, then absolutely do it. But I don't think it's required, especially in this day and age where citizen scientists are working out of their garage. We've got, you know, labs in the community that you can go to and become a member of and you can find advisors there. You can learn how to CRISPR a gene right now without a college education. You can buy genetic engineering kits online that will teach you the things that, you know, you spend hundreds of thousands of dollars in in college to learn. So I think there's just very different aspects in science that, you know, 20 years ago we didn't have access to. I have seen high school students teaching adults how to CRISPR. I've seen young, you know, like 18, 19 year olds looking at genetically modifying bacteria to do anything. I mean, we can genetically engineer yeast now to make certain pharmaceuticals. The citizen science labs are fantastic. They're an opportunity for people that either are into science or brand new into science. It gives them that kind of taste and feeling about what you can do to certain bacterias. Biomanufacturing is huge now. You have the, you know, the aspect to genetically engineer a bacteria to extract lithium from ore to help the environment. We're using genetically modified, you know, agriculture day to day. We're using, I just lost my brain of thought, insulin. So pharmaceuticals, if you look at pharmaceuticals, they're making insulin in the citizen sciences labs with just bacteria. So I think the aspect of, you know, our food supply, one of the, I can't remember which plant-based food product it was, but one of those started actually in a lab, so in a citizen science lab. So it's just the ability to go in at the ground level and the things that you can do just in your garage, let alone, you know, an actual community lab is so crazy. So I love it. So I think it's kind of twofold from the aspect of, you know, the science world. I think with STEM studies, there is a lot of recruiting, you know, for women more in the science realm. I've seen younger girls get, you know, into science, whether it's through engineering or computer science, artificial intelligence, that kind of thing, coding. I've seen a lot more uptick in women doing that. As a woman in law enforcement, it's been very different, you know, over my almost, it's been 15 years now, my career, you know, I, it's definitely a boys club. As a single mom, I had a really difficult time in the very beginning of my career, kind of, you know, raising a kid at home and then also trying to compete in this, you know, huge world of law enforcement that's very dominated by men. It's been a huge challenge, but I've seen a huge shift as well. In my experience, especially with the government, we have more women in leadership positions, which has been amazing. In the science labs, like I said, the actual girl that I was talking about, it's a female that's teaching, you know, these adults how to CRISPR in a lab, and she's 18. And, you know, I think there's just way more opportunity than there was, you know, 20 years ago for women, for sure. I think that's why it's so important to find an advisor too. If you, you know, I think some of my favorite leaders just over my career have been women and a lot of, and not because I'm more prone to listening to women over men, I just think that it was the aspect of, I identify with them more and I've seen, you know, their struggles and I've witnessed my own struggles. So I hope that I can be that advisor then to a young woman coming into either this field or into science or whatever it is that she chooses. I think a lot of times too, we focus on this whole gender role, right? And I know as a kid, you know, I had people tell me, oh, you know, you'll never be a doctor, you'll never be a lawyer because that wasn't what, you know, Gen Xers did. You know, it's like, even though we were kind of on the cusp of trying to get out and build those careers, there was still a standard of what we could or couldn't dream of, right? And I think that depending on where you grew up, I grew up in Midwest Missouri. So the aspect of having women in these high power roles, I didn't have those role models. So I had to really get out of Missouri and get out of my comfort zone before I started realizing that the world was my oyster. There was so much more that I could actually get involved in and learn. And I just really think that that took, you know, finding somebody that I connected with, having an advisor that could really encourage me and finding people that I really looked up to and respected. So I, yeah, you're right. When I was in college, it was easy for me to, you know, have those professors that I kind of lobbed onto and was able to get that guidance from. But again, I think that goes back to thinking outside your bubble and actually, you know, in this day and age where social media is so prevalent. I mean, the aspect that you can follow somebody on social media that you respect and you look up to and the ability to even just DM them or, you know, there are a lot of scientists out there that are famous that love that, right? Like you have the option to just ask questions of them. If that's not even an opportunity, I think, again, it just gets, it's about getting outside of your bubble and getting into your community. There are plenty of people in the community that are doing things that are phenomenal and we just have to look for it. And I think sometimes we get so used to just being spoon fed information that we don't take initiative to actually seek out those experience. And so I think it's important to take that initiative and find somebody that you really do look up to and it's worth just pinging them and giving them your story. I know, you know, my dad said the other day, he's like, I have a high school student that's really interested in talking to you about the FBI. Would you talk to her? And I was like, of course I would. Like, I don't think that we're doing a good service by shutting people down. If we are supposed to be advancing as a species and as a community, we're not doing any favors by not encouraging and by not leading. So the best thing we can do is to get out and mentor people and talk to them about our careers or the aspect that there's so much out there that we don't even realize what kind of jobs there are. So I would like to say that this is all me, kind of, but I don't. I wish I could say this is all me. The one thing that I've been working on for 15 years and the one thing that I really saw that was a gap, you know, in biosecurity. So first, let me just talk about the aspect of biosecurity is so foreign to a lot of people, especially in my organization. When you go in to talk to agents that have been in for maybe 15 or 20 years before they retire and they have a military background or they have a law enforcement background. When you talk about the things that scare people the most, the first thing they're going to think of is like a nuclear weapon, right? Like that's terrifying for our country. And that's historically terrifying. When you talk about biology, half the time people are like, well, I can't even spell biology let alone, you know, understand the implications of why I should be concerned about it, right? So I spent a lot of time working with citizen scientists and academia to understand what are the implications of biology? What does that mean from a national security perspective? Why should the government be worried about that? And I think up until COVID, we were all kind of on this, this cheerleading, you know, session of we need to be watching out for biology. Everybody needs to understand that this has the potential to be probably worse than a nuclear weapon. And then COVID hit and everybody was like, oh, why didn't we know about this? And it's like, we've been talking about this forever, right? So in my casework, cause I, you know, like I said, in my, in my normal day-to-day job, I'm a field agent. So I investigate national security cases. I look at foreign adversaries that are trying to, you know, attack our national security. So what does that mean? When we look at biological weapons, historically, the United States has looked at, you know, anthrax or ricin as a biological weapon, but because of synthetic biology and because of bioengineering, we're seeing advances in science that we, we never dreamed possible. Then when you add computer science to that and you add artificial intelligence and machine learning, now we have a whole different ball game when it comes to this biosecurity, right? So what I was looking at is, you know, in the last probably 10 years is companies like 23andMe, Ancestry, all of these genetic companies that, although are very good and help us identify genetically what we're predisposed to for a disease process, there can be a flip side of that, right? So in the United States, we don't have any laws that protect our genetic information. So in science, we want to share that information when it comes to discoveries. We want to work globally with our other counterparts to make sure that, again, we're advancing science around the world, but we also have to be very careful in the United States about maintaining this economic, economic power. We want to be the best, right? We want our country to come out with all the new discoveries because, you know, America is the greatest country in the world, right? So how do we protect that? So one of the things we've been looking at from, you know, from a national security perspective from the FBI, but also looking within academia is how do you protect genetic information? And what does that look like? The United States doesn't have a legislation right now to protect human genetic information. So when you go do these tests like 23andMe or Ancestry, they get sequenced in another country and that country then has access to that genetic information. So that doesn't necessarily mean that they're going to identify you individually, Eric, as you're the person that this genetic information comes in. But when you look at the aggregate of the data, you start to see a trend in the United States of, you know, who has this disease process? What's causing this aspect of, you know, of advancement or not? So when I came to Hoover at Stanford, the one thing that I really wanted to focus on for my research while I was here is, is there a way that we can either develop a technology to protect genetic information or should we be looking at legislation reform? The FBI is not a regulatory agency. We're not like the FDA. We're not going to come into a scientist and say, you know, we want to put regulation on your science. You can't share this information because it's a threat to national security, right? So I've spent years trying to encourage scientists. That's not what I'm here to do. I'm here to learn because I need to know how we can protect our country, right? And protect that science that's coming out. So really looking at, is there a technology? Can we use blockchain? Is there some way to protect and code our own genetic information, whether it's human sequencing or whether it's, you know, a disease process, a new disease process that we've identified? How do we protect that while still advancing science? And that comes back to sharing, you know, across the country. It creates this communal aspect of science where you can still work in a collaboration with somebody in a, you know, in a country thousands of miles away, but at the same time, you're still maintaining that advancement in the United States and protecting that intellectual property. So if we can do that, if we can discover a way to protect that without maybe necessarily creating a law to infringe on that science, that would be my goal. And I think looking, you know, 15 years in the future, I'm hoping that we, that we are, you know, advanced enough that we can figure that out. Because I think there's this new term coming out now called Bionet. You know, like, how do we protect the Bionet? We've looked at the internet for so long now. Now we need to take that next step with biology and say, if we're not careful, we're going to lose that competitive edge. So how do we, how do we keep it here without actually regulating it and without creating, you know, more work for our scientists to create this advancement?