So, hello, thank you so much for inviting me for the interview. My name is Siavash Arar. I'm an assistant professor, which means a new professor in CSU Long Beach, and I work in biomedical engineering, but I really think of myself as a bioengineer. So, my lab is made out of entirely undergrad students, and we work on a couple of cool projects. I'm going to pick one that I'm really excited about, not that the others are not good, but we're building tools to study aquatic organisms. We build very cheap microscopes, and these fluidic homes, essentially, if you will, these fluidic chips, to study sand dollar larvae. These are like, you know, when they grow up, they look like a giant circle, but when they're young, they look like the stealth bomber, essentially. And we're trying to, and also Hydra, which is like this crazy organism that if you cut it, you end up with two, and, you know, I can tell you all about that. But why we're working on these is because we want to use their hydrodynamics, like how they move inside the liquid environment, and how they respond to various, you know, environmental factors as a model to understand the impact of climate change on various organisms. And we're not biologists, so, and we love biology, we work with amazing biologists, but we're engineers. So, our approach is, like, we are smart enough to know that we know very little biology, given our background, so we partner up with awesome biologists. So, our approach is broadly to build tools that help biologists do their research and slowly begin to ask our own questions from an engineering perspective. So, you know, that's a great question. And I think folks can contribute based on what they know, and as long as they're happy to learn, you know, like, as long as you're willing to engage with the problem, think about it deeply. And if you have gaps in your knowledge, willing to, like, you know, fill it, I think you can begin to learn and contribute. Like, I don't, you know, like, when I started my undergrad studies, I was not a bioengineer, I was, and I went to a high school outside of the US, where we had to pick a major. So, I was a, kind of like a physics and math track student. So, the first biology course that I took was in college, and that was, like, in all honesty, the first ever biology course I had ever taken. It's, like, probably my lowest grade ever. But I really liked it, because it was really new. I had no idea what was happening, like, genuinely, like, I think I barely passed the course, and I had ruined my GPA, but it kind of didn't matter, because I was just, like, it's really cool. So, I started my research as a biomedical engineer, working on similar types of stuff, while I did not know any biology. But I actually grew to like it. At the beginning, I was not at all excited about learning biology. It seemed like a chore, but it kind of changed over time. To go back to one point that I guess maybe I didn't do a good job of emphasizing, is that, you know, like, we love to learn biology, but when I say we bring an engineering perspective to it, I really like building stuff. Essentially, you know, like, I've always been into kind of, like, making new types of tools, making devices, working on projects. So, when I was in high school, I was part of a theater group that we worked on, putting on the, you know, I guess the light pieces for the production. So, that was the thing that excited me, like, building stuff. So, we are at a place in bioengineering that we can build stuff for, you know, studying biology, or build with biology itself. And as long as that's a perspective that you bring in, I think you can contribute to the field, and you can grow and learn. So, you know, I thought about this question, and I wish I had, like, a very, like, a neat or, like, profound answer. I think that, you know, like, throughout, there were, so I've always been a little nerdy and academic. So, there were a lot of, and I read a lot, I read very broadly. And there were a lot of papers, research papers, that really genuinely captivated my imagination. I had no idea, when I first read some of those papers, what they were really talking about. Like, I did not at all understand the biology. But I just really liked the idea, right? I was, like, a second year undergrad in electrical engineering, reading a paper about kind of building, I guess, clock-like circuits inside bacteria. I did not really know what was a genome, like, how bacteria, like, worked. But I just really, you know, liked the idea. I was, like, oh, this sounds, genuinely, it just sounds cool. So, and there were a couple of other papers similar. So, that's how, like, I think my kind of attention shifted towards bioengineering as a young learner. And I guess there were a couple of steps along the way that this path became more obvious. One of the reasons I think it's a good time, one of the reasons I'm excited to be part of bioengineering today, is because I think the discipline, the community, is one of a big camp, right? Big tent approach. So, you can do many different things, and you can work on very exciting types of projects in the discipline. So, that's a very, you know, very good thing about the field. Not every community or the field approaches their studies or their profession this way. So, that, I guess, may, I don't know if I'm answering your question very well or not, but that's how I think about it. So, I think the safe bet type answer is that, you know, there is, there are now a lot of very cool opportunities that stuff that we've learned from biology itself can be kind of, like, useful, and that's a bad, bad way of maybe describing this, but they can be utilized in a fashion that we mean to use them that way. This is slightly off tangent. I'm, like many folks, I'm really worried about climate change. However, I think because of climate change, it's, you know, like doing exploration in the North or South Pole has become slightly easier. I think we've learned a lot of cool stuff from how aquatic organisms do very unusual things, things that we don't necessarily, like, on our everyday think about, and we've been able to use, you know, those resources and, for example, build impactful things in the context of our everyday lives. So, I think we're going to learn in the next, you know, like decade or so, we're going to learn a lot of cool things from how life behaves in those extreme environments. And we may be able to use some of those things that you're learning in building things that are exciting and cool. I love to, you know, like, my students in my courses have learned, have heard this story, like, maybe hundreds of times. They're probably really sick of it. But I tell them about the horseshoe crab and how we kind of just learned about its biology and its cool immune system and how we utilize that to kind of do drug, you know, drug discovery or working on, you know, biomedical applications. I'm pretty sure there are tons of other examples that are in these extreme environments, maybe at, you know, like, not as charismatic as a horseshoe crab, but maybe a bacteria that lives in very extreme environments that we can just learn cool stuff about how that organism lives and be able to use it. So, I think, you know, in the near future, those things might be more accessible for bad reasons, I guess, because of climate change, but maybe, you know, a positive outlook on that. On things that worry me, you know, like, obviously and naturally, there are some concerns about, you know, some of the ramifications of the field, like, for example, how we think about using or misusing some tools that have emerged over the past 10 years. Or maybe the society is not ready because we have not necessarily done a good job of communicating what is, you know, what is emerging from the field. So, that's one thing that I worry about. The additional part that I'm concerned with is that if we don't do a good job of, you know, communicating and educating and kind of like really engaging, when I say communicating, I don't mean just talking at people, like actually listening to what they have to say as well. We might not be able to fully utilize or we might not reach our field's true potential either, right? So, there's a concern saying, well, someone will misuse, like, for example, a gene drive, right? That's a real concern, right? Or who gets to decide if we are going to use a gene drive or not? The flip side is that, you know, like maybe we, if we don't communicate well, we miss certain opportunities that are really important, right? So, thinking about climate change in an impactful way, addressing some of our needs to produce energy or food in a, you know, like a healthier way, healthy relative to the planet. So, if we don't communicate well to the broader, you know, everyone else in the society who does not have like a PhD in bioengineering, well, we're missing the opportunity. So, that worries me a lot. I did not know anything. So, here's an example of, you know, I guess I was ignorant. I did not know anything about sand dollars or sand dollar larvae until I started my position as a professor, as an assistant professor. I had just seen sand dollars, like essentially at the beach when they were dead, right? This is white, you know, like, I guess they're, you know, their remains. And when we started this project, it was scary, right? Because I was asking a couple of young folks at, you know, at the start of their academic career, like undergraduate scholars, that's like, okay, we're going to build tools to study this. So, I had to sit down and study, right? And it was, it was exciting. It was scary, but it was also really exciting because I learned, I am continuously learning new stuff. And, and I think that's, that's a good mindset to bring to any, any discipline or any learning environment, but particularly bioengineering as a discipline, because we know very little. And that's a good thing. That's an awesome thing. So, to be very honest, I don't know, right? That's, and that's exciting and scary in its own ways. One of the things that I hope that would happen is that some of these tools that have been developed and knowledge that's been gained over the maybe past 20 years will begin to present themselves as particularly impactful solutions. Let me give like specific examples. So, you know, if you read, so, so I have, I do not mean to at all be insensitive about this. I have family members who have suffered and are struggling with cancer. Cancer is a horrible disease. Too many people still perish because of it. And at the same time, if you read the original literature that came in from declaring war on cancer, we have met many of those milestones. We've accomplished so much. There's still a lot remains to be done, but we've done a good deal of, we've achieved a great deal of progress. And not just by engineers, all, you know, all disciplines together to address this horrible disease. We haven't accomplished similar, you know, milestones for neurodegenerative diseases. Hopefully the tools that are emerging through bioengineering, for example, optogenetics is one of them, will enable kind of like fundamental understanding of not necessarily even therapies, right? Fundamental understandings that begin to help us to address some of these neurodegenerative diseases that are really important. The global population is, you know, is aging. So maybe that's one aspect that I'm hoping in the near, selfishly, in the next 20 years that things will get better. In the context of climate change, I think there's a lot of very good ongoing efforts that are folks who are working on projects similar to metabolic engineering of different pathways that can fix carbon more effectively using various types of tools. So maybe that would be a front. I, you know, like, so that's like a conservative answer. The, you know, the, I guess the more excited answer is that why can't we have bioengineered trees genuinely that are better at fixing carbon, right? That could happen, right? It's, you know, like sometimes it's very, I think we were just briefly talking about the life before internet. That was 20 years ago. It wasn't, it wasn't that long ago, right? So it's, it's possible to imagine, you know, these things that these useful tools and technologies that might be on the horizon. And when they happen, folks just take them for granted, which is okay. It's good. So those are two areas that I'm hoping to see good, meaningful progress. Additionally, I think the way we built stuff that's, I think is less than 20 years, the way that we built stuff, the economics of it is trickier than I think the, the science part. And that's, that's, I guess, goes back to this big tent of bioengineering that we need awesome people. We need excited people who would think about aspects of policy, aspects of business development, aspects of deployment, and how to turn these, you know, cool ideas to, to viable solutions. I was very recent. I don't know if this is true. So, so take this with a grain of salt. I was recently told that lasers for, for the first, like almost five to six years that they were invented, folks were just treating them like toys. And I haven't had the time to double check this. It was like, apparently lasers at the beginning were considered this cool technology that was useless. I don't know if this is true, but you know, if, if, if there's a remote possibility that that's true, that's just mind boggling. You know, like we use lasers every day and everything today. Right. But, you know, apparently the inventors of lasers were like, okay, there is this thing. Right. And it's kind of cool. But, but, you know, like with that idea, like, I think sometimes we can't imagine the impact of a tool or technology, both positive and negative. But it's, it's an, it's, it's definitely a very exciting time to be in bioengineering. With that, actually, I think there's, there's an interesting problem in bioengineering and that's capacity building, right? The infrastructure for, for the discipline, you know, that's, there's tons of areas of opportunities for folks who may choose not to want to have like a PhD in bioengineering. Right. So, for example, I think the infrastructure for internet, because we don't see it, we don't think about it, but, but that took like probably, I don't know how long it took to put cables at the bottom of an ocean, right. To, to, to enable, you know, like, I think that was probably harder than, than building iPhones. I'm speculating. I don't know, but, but I think there's, there are many opportunities for the infrastructure of bioengineering. That are really important and, and they're going to be fun to, to think about. And I don't think necessarily to contribute one needs, you know, like a PhD. No, that's fair. And, and, and as you said, it's very hard for me to, to, so the first, the first part I think is easy. You, I think today it's possible to be in high school or even younger and begin to work in bioengineering. So you, you should not wait to, to kind of like start college before you kind of like get excited and do something. You can work in, I think there are now actually maker spaces around biology. There are opportunities with, with academic labs, with other types of resources. I think there are now kits and tools that, that folks can buy. We, we, you know, like I think folks in this class will experience using a foldscope. That's, you know, that can happen anywhere, anytime. And, and you can explore things. So, so to begin to explore and do stuff. I don't think you, you, you, you do not need to wait to go to college. That, that's for sure. I am biased. I'm obviously highly biased because I'm a professor, right? So if you ask me, should we go to college? My, my knee jerk reaction is yes. I don't know if that's, that's true or not. Just like, you know, telling you my, my ignorance, but that's my, that's my knee jerk reaction. And I think partially it's, it's not just because of getting a degree or like learning a profession. Those are really important. I, you know, I, I was, my, my background was such that I really needed to have a secure financial support for myself after, after graduating college. So I fully understand that. But I think, you know, other things that happen inside a college setting is like, you know, I grew up as a person, right? I made very good friends that I'm still close with to this day. I kind of like, you know, went to a lot of art exhibits as a college student, which I now don't have time. It's very funny because you would think there's like, oh my God, I'm so busy as a college student. The sad part is that you're going to get busier and busier. So, so I really had a very good, and I went to a public school. I went to UC Irvine, which was not as popular as it is now. It was still very, very popular, but it was not, I hear UCI is now really popular among UCs, which I take pride in obviously for no good reasons. But, but I think, you know, I had a very good part of my life. I experienced a very good part of my, my, my young adult life, I guess, in, in, in, in college. I think you asked me, what would I do differently? I'm just going to rephrase that a little bit, like, because I don't know, I'm going to kind of try to answer something that makes me like more comfortable. You know, I, I think I worry too much about short-term successes, like, you know, like I, I was, I had scholarships that depended on my, my grade. So I worried for good reasons for my grade, my grades. And, and because of that, at least at the end of the year.