My name is Ben Novak. I am the lead scientist of Revive and Restore, the world's only nonprofit promoting the innovation and adoption of biotechnologies and conservation. For Revive and Restore, I work on a number of projects. I lead the project to recreate the extinct passenger pigeon and recreate the extinct heath hen through modern bioengineering and paleogenomics. I work on recovering genetic diversity for the endangered black-footed ferret and Schiffalski's horse through our conservation cloning programs, and I help oversee a wide array of conservation genomics projects. And just this year in 2022, I launched an entire program dedicated to innovating biotechnology for bird conservation in which I am managing science teams all over the world in Japan, Korea, Germany, and the U.S. that hopefully, as intended, will revolutionize bird science, not just for conservation, but as an entire science. So I will be working to genetically engineer pigeons over the next two years. This is as an individual private endeavor. This is separate from my day work. The reason I do not consider myself a bioengineer per se is that I personally do not have the computational biology skills. I actually lack computational skills entirely, and I do not have the genetic skills to really understand how to put together a gene construct for a transgene or how to design a gene edit. Those are things that I rely on having a collaborator to help do, where I have specialized myself in the work that I want to do is in the organismal side of things, of the animals that we want to engineer. So I want to engineer pigeons. So my expertise is in breeding and handling pigeons and how to manipulate their eggs and ensure that a transgenic animal gets from birth to adulthood and that type of thing. So it would be very different if we were talking about engineering yeast or engineering bacteria. I am in the field of wanting to engineer things that are multicellular organisms, and that is pretty different. That is in my hobby and in my day job. What I have been doing for the last 10 years is trying to find the real bioengineers out there that could do things that could make a difference in wildlife conservation and oversee and program manage where that goes. So I have been in a seat of what is the big vision for bioengineering in the world, while not always having to personally be the person in the lab figuring out how to do it. The world of biohacking is certainly opening up the possibility that many more people can get into bioengineering. In truth, if you are working at a laboratory that is engineering organisms, it is going to be pretty rare that you are a person who does every step of the work from point A to point B. We rely on collaborative teams. I am happy to call myself a bioengineer in the fact that I have specialized myself. I know the field conceptually. I have figured out where I can put my skills and expertise. The end goal of both my private laboratory work and my work for Revive and Restore is ultimately engineered organisms. So yeah, I will take the tag then. I have been working for 10 years for a non-profit organization called Revive and Restore. We are the only non-profit organization in the world with the sole mission to promote and foster the innovation and adoption of biotechnologies for conservation. We consider all forms of biotechnology, from simple genomic sequencing and bioinformatics data to augment conservation decisions already happening now, to the realm that more people would consider bioengineering, where we are actually manipulating an organism or an aspect of its ecosystem. I actually fell in love with the idea of biotechnology when I was about 13 years old. I wanted to get into conservation and do things to save biodiversity since I was probably 11, 12 years old when I really became aware of the problems facing biodiversity loss and ecosystem collapse. I became aware of recently extinct species, which fascinated me. The idea of restoring ecosystems was very fascinating to me. I grew up near a national park, Theodore Roosevelt National Park, where species had been restored. The bison, bighorn sheep, and elk populations that are in Theodore Roosevelt National Park were all transplanted there. They had gone extinct due to extirpation in the 1800s and early 1900s. Decades later, conservationists grabbed some from the Rocky Mountains and northern Canada and other areas and brought them in. And I thought, well, why can't we do that for something like a dodo bird, or a woolly mammoth, or a passenger pigeon, which is my personal favorite, the one I'm working on. It happened to be about the same time in life that the human genome was being published. People were talking about genetic engineering a lot. With the sequencing of the human genome, the whole concept of where we go from there was really a hot topic in science and media. My brain made the click. It was like, well, maybe if we can sequence DNA from an extinct species, and we can engineer that DNA back into a living form, we can do a level of restoration that's just not open right now and not possible to us. In my education, I actually went down the road of ecology and evolution. I did a lot of paleontology study and some work, because I thought, okay, if I'm going to restore extinct species, then I need to understand extinction and extinct species. I think there's a lot of different ways someone could get into the work that I do through zoology and from a conservation genetics angle, from more land management angles, or from computational biology, genetics, genomics, and even programs now that are really focused on bacterial genetics and do genetic engineering early on. You can get into it from a lot of different levels, because the concept of applying biotech in conservation requires all those players, people who understand the environment, who understand the organismal biology and the population biology, people who understand animal husbandry and how to breed these species, animals who understand embryology and how you manipulate these things in development, to people who understand the genes and the genomics. Where I've gone with my job is basically understanding the big picture of what all that is, so that hopefully, I can continue to orchestrate programs that do all these things to help endangered species and the extinct ones. Personally, I am of the philosophy that we do not need entire generations to go to university and put the time and commitment into four years of school, sometimes five or six, due to complications that are out of our hands as students, to earn a degree for something that we could have gotten into straight out of high school through hands-on work. There may be some options to get into things like zoology and animal husbandry without degrees, but in truth, in the conservation realm, in the biotechnology conservation realm right now, it's probably extremely difficult to get into it without doing at least a bachelor's degree study. Actually, even for state agency and federal agency wildlife groups, sorry, wildlife agencies like Fish and Wildlife Service, it's recommended to at least get a master's or go higher in education, simply because, for one, the job turnover is much slower than it used to be. So prolonging your start date is just helpful. But second, there are also not a lot of entry positions where you can start getting that experience on the job like people used to. And third, if you're going to think about using biotechnology, even if you're not someone who's actively doing the biotech side of things, you really should understand it. And it's difficult to come in and understand if you don't at least have a very good background in genetics and genomics and things like, if you're going to work with wild species, things like conservation genetics and population ecology. These are things that require a lot of education to understand. It's very difficult to just go in without at least a couple years of enhanced biology and math. So yeah, so I think for anyone to get into the work that I'm doing with biotech and conservation, I highly recommend university degrees in at least one of the subfields that would lead into this. And no matter what subfield you go into, if it's strictly zoology or if it's just broader biology, you definitely need to be getting in some coursework that is intro to genetics, intro to bioengineering, things like that. With bioengineering and where biotech is at, it just gives me this sense that you can imagine almost anything now. There's a lot we don't know about how genetics work, which genes are responsible for what traits, but the concept really is at a point where you can say, okay, well, maybe we'll engineer a population to be disease resistant. Maybe we'll engineer it to overcome climate change. Just the fact that I think one of the most powerful things we can even think about right now is the fact that not even creating an extinct species, which is what I'm most excited about, but the fact that the concept that I can take a specimen out of a museum drawer and take a tiny bit of tissue and sequence its genome and then compare that to its living relatives. Let's take, for instance, a species I work with, the black-footed ferret. In 1985 to 87, this species went down to a total of 18 surviving animals, of which there were families and related animals to the point that of the ones that saved the species and bred in conservation breeding centers, only seven were considered actually genetically distinct in some way. All living black-footed ferrets trace their ancestry to just seven individuals. We could now consider opening up museum drawers of animals from populations that are completely gone and wiped out, sequence their genomes, compare it to all the living black-footed ferrets and go, okay, what's some genetic diversity that this species is missing? Edit that back into a living population and make it as if a little bit of genetics survived more. The fact that we can reverse these once completely irreversible traumas to nature is what's really cool to me because we could do that for lots of species. Then when you think about, well, can we create a gene construct now that makes them self-vaccinating to overcome the diseases that we've introduced, which is work that Bridget Baumgartner at Reviving Restore is overseeing. I help support her in that. There's just a lot of things we can think about doing. The fact that island conservation and the G-Bird program are coming up with ways to potentially humanely eliminate invasive species using things like gene drives or other gene suppressing elements to remove the idea of using toxic pesticides. These just open up so many doors to change the way we live with nature. We could engineer livestock to not transmit disease to other species. We can engineer plants to grow larger on less water, less food. We could be enabling for the first time in history, a future in which rather than alienating other species and creating quality of life for humans off of the degradation of this planet, we can create a modern, even more futuristic idea of human quality of life that is in coexistence and harmony with the other billion species on this planet. Not only can we do that, but if we can push forward and recreate the legacy of extinct species, like recreate something that is a new passenger pigeon and put it in the wild, then we're looking at a future in which for the first time there might be a generation born in which there's finally more in the world than less in it. Because that's what hits me when I was born and I learned about things like the dodo bird and the thylacine and the passenger pigeon and the great auk, was that I was born into a world that had less life and diversity in it than the generation before me. And that's been every generation of human beings for basically the last 125,000 years that we've been spreading across the planet and altering the planet in ways that have caused the extinction of incredible species that, you know, we once lived with. We once lived with woolly mammoths and painted them in cave art. We don't have that anymore. People once lived with passenger pigeons just two human lifetimes ago and that's something that through carelessness and avarice has been robbed from the present-day generations. And my sons who were born just 30 years, oh my goodness, my sons were born just 32 years after me, were already born into a world that had hundreds if not thousands of species less than when I was born. And the sad reality is when I become a grandfather, my son's children will be in a world that has less in it. And someday because of bioengineering we can change that and start putting more back into the world. That's what keeps me having faith in that there's a better future for humanity. The most important thing that's beyond bioengineering for me in the work that I do to try and restore nature with bioengineering is that we seldom appreciate the human connection to it. We live in a world where you know something like 70 to 90 percent of people depending on where you live are urban now and our urban environments are very disconnected from natural settings. And they don't have to be. We can build cities better to where they're not. We can invite species in but it is the state we're in that we have people that have grown up their entire lives with literally no exposure to other species around them. And that's actually very alien for human beings. For 300,000 years the condition of being human is tied within an environment that is co-inhabited with thousands of other species that we built our culture off of. You think of every indigenous tribe in the world they are connected to the species they live with. That's where their stories come from. That's where their culture comes from. And all of us have that indigenous origin as a white person from European descent. You go back several thousand years and our people are shamanistic druids, Celts wandering across the nation who tattoo designs of animals on their skin where animal hide and work it into their art and their stories. And it's something we've slowly drifted away from but it is still in us. If there's any case for there being kind of genetic memories the human condition is one that needs nature and green space. And there's now a whole lot of empirical research to show us that hearing the sounds of the ocean for an hour helps relieve stress. Walking in a park or a nature setting for an hour or two hours decompresses the physiological stress of the human body. We have empirical biological evidence now that we need biodiversity just to be happy human beings. And bioengineering literally is the key towards the future that has everything we've come to love about our modern life and still allows other species to live in it. And what's really awesome to me is just the fact that this grand vision of entire species coexisting with human beings better than ever before can start with cells in a petri dish, tissue in a micro centrifuge tube, gene sequences as digital information on a computer, and it can be an email chain between me and someone in the United Kingdom or Kenya or New Zealand exchanging ideas. I mean it's it's there's there's just so so much cool stuff to this field that I could talk about it forever.