My name is Luis de Luna, I'm currently a bioengineering student here at Maricosa, and I don't have a professional title, but I do know that eventually I do want to be a scientist or a researcher in pharmaceuticals. Well, I didn't really choose it, I happened to stumble upon it. I was taking a lab course here at this college, and one of the professors just reached out to me and said, hey, look, listen, you're doing a good job in my classes, have you considered biotech? And at the time, I was really not wanting to go into pharmaceuticals or into the big biotech industry, I just wanted to, you know, do research and do like things that are more esoteric compared to biopharma. But I got into the program because I thought, okay, well, it's cheaper, I get to have a bachelor's degree at the end of it. And it turns out that that's what got me into it, the more I learned about it, the more fascinated and interesting it became. And it just got to the point where I was like, well, this is actually something that I wanted to do now. And I believe it's this humor and there were about like two years ago, I didn't want anything to do with pharma, but now I'm really want to and that's all I want to do now. I think that's just the way life goes. During high school, I knew that I liked learning about the sciences more, but I just didn't think that it would go this far. At high school, I didn't really think that I would even graduate until I did. And then when you put in that position, you're kind of forced to think about your future. And I was like, well, I don't really know much what I want to do yet. So I came to Maricosta. But I guess when it comes down to that, yeah, it just kind of flew by. And to be honest, I didn't really think that it was something that was possible for someone like me, especially who grew up in very different environments than what a child should live in that I was like, well, it is scary. But I think it was worth doing. And so when it comes to answering that question, yeah, I was always interested in science, but I didn't think it was something worth pursuing until I was right at the doorstep. And then I was like, well, why not just take the chance now? The one thing that I do love about it is that even if you work in just like manufacturing or even research in any, I guess, little section of biotech or bioengineering is that when you go to work, you always learn something new. And when you wake up and you think to yourself, OK, well, today I'm going to learn why this way is done this way. And when you realize that bioengineering has so many different fields attached to it and you learn something new every day, it becomes less of a job and more of a of a fun thing to do because you go into work, you expect to learn something new. And those expectations are always met. And so even if that doesn't fulfill your, what would you call it, like even if that doesn't fulfill what you want to do yet, you always know that as long as you keep staying on that track, you're eventually going to find out what you actually want to do. And I think that's part of the beauty of what this profession is. I think that, I mean, of course, making medicine for new diseases is something that is always going to be a thing. But when it comes to what we can do as people besides the biotech aspect of it, I think that we can definitely improve the accessibility for others. I think that a lot of talent is wasted because people kind of just like give you your title and you're kind of stuck in that role when biotech was introduced and it grew because of people going outside of their typical roles. And I think that the more we embrace that, the faster progress we can make towards these new innovative ideas and we can create and pump out medicines even faster. And I think that when you collaborate with someone who doesn't know anything or like know something, but doesn't know as much as you're doing compared to someone that knows everything about it, the mixture of different perspectives is what really like shoots the progress. It catalyzes it into something that is both collaborative and useful for the biotech industry. And I think that as time progresses, when you start removing labels and you see people for what they actually are and what they bring to the table, then I believe that we were actually going to start progressing farther than we do now. So that's something that I do hope changes over time. So I knew that since in high school, one of the things that drove me kind of like scared of this pathway was that like, oh, well, I don't see people like me doing any of this. Why should I do it? Right. And I think that as our generation right now has the most impact to be able to change that because it's because like education becoming more accessible because education has been able to include people like us into the circles that were unaccessible before. I think it gives us the opportunity to give us that mindset where it's like, well, it's not us, then who else if you and I can't break those barriers and we have to give it to somebody else to do it. But what if they can't do it, you know? And so I believe that as people of color like you and I, we have to make that strength not only for ourselves, but for others, because when you when it's like if we were to go back and look at who we were able to look upon, we want to be able to give that to other people who are still studying to give them that opportunity to look to somebody and say, well, if they can do it, then why can't I? And I think that as we continue to make that push together as a community, we're going to build more strength. And I mean, it's already being presented by women. So many women already introducing and being flooded into the biotech industry, and that's already made a significant change. Like we have been progressing further and better into the future, whereas before it seemed like it was hindering because there was such a limited like amount of thinking like it was groupthink. But I think that as people of brown and black and other colors, we should definitely make that effort ourselves. If we can't go as far as to go like a PhD, we can make little steps and more and more we step on that path, the more I guess cemented it becomes and it becomes easier for people behind us to walk into. I think the advice I would give is that it's always going to be a marathon. It's never a sprint. The faster you realize that, I think the more grounded you become and you realize that your efforts that you have in your habits now, when you teach yourself that, it becomes easier because you realize, okay, well, it gives you a second to stop and really think about what you're learning. And so I think for people who are in high school, so on that cusp, I would tell them, ultimately, I would recommend the biotech, but you can choose any other major, it's them related and you can still say to yourself, it's going to take a while. And when you give yourself that time, it gives you some of the opportunity to open up to other things and really develop yourself as a person. And I think that's one of the most important things you can do, especially professionally, it's just develop yourself. The more you develop yourself, the more discipline you earn, the more respect you get out of people and eventually opportunities just come to your door, you don't have to go look for them anymore. Yeah, I think that right now the leadership within the biotech industry is very small and very, I don't want to say the word monopolized, but it's very tightly knitted. And I think that as people leave those leadership positions and are flooded with people of our generation or black and brown individuals, the worry is that people who were still there because of tenure are going to oppose a lot of the new ideas and impede on the progress that we make. Another thing that I worry is that ethically as education and as all these equipment becomes so much more accessible and cheaper, that the lacking of education in terms of like high school and teaching of ethics is going to enable children to like, or not children, but like people who have that access to be able to work on a lot of things at home and give them the opportunity to do things that aren't supervised and may create problems. And I think ethically, it enables people to make hypotheses and a lot of experiments that are not as ethical as they should. And that is why I believe that we should continue to teach children about ethical considerations and pharma, we should continue to teach children about the accessibility and the power that they have, and also teach them about the power of leadership and how you as an individual can influence others around you without even doing anything and why that power of being a leader is able to, you know, transform the lives of people around you. And that's why I believe that moving forward, we should always consider what can we do better? We should always consider how can we make this better for the people behind us? And how can we make this better so that people don't have to go through the unnecessary wastes and symptoms of unethical practices? I think that people who are below me in age are very confused because of how society has been changing so much lately. And so I think that people just resort to the path of these resistance, where like, if something's bad, it's completely bad. If something's good, it's completely good. But I think we should take a step back and understand that as a society, we have always been have social issues and that the implementation of change is always going to have resistance. And so I think that something that I would tell newer individuals is that nothing is really ever black and white. Everything is gray. You can do something good and it can have bad consequences and vice versa. You can do something bad and have it have good consequences. And I think that the most important thing that people below me should understand is that nothing you do, everything that you do actually has consequences. And I think that the more you understand about how your consequences affect others, the better decisions ethically we can make in the future. It definitely does have different pathways. I've known a lot of supervisors that in the biotech industry that don't have degrees that manage to learn as much as they do without it, because when it comes to accessibility, science has become so easy to understand now that pretty much anybody can learn it without a degree. So I would say that, yeah, you don't need a degree, but at the same time, it's almost like a tug of war. You don't really need one, but at the same time, getting one really opens your mind into different possibilities and it gives you that education to understand that there's more to it than just this biotech. Biotech affects this, biotech affects that. As long as you get that education, I think that you understand more about the considerations of some applications than others. And so I would agree that, yeah, getting a degree is not mandatory, but I would recommend it not only because of the things I said, but because also professionally, it does catalyze your progress and it makes things a lot easier because the diploma does make it easier for other employers to give you more credit and have more weight when you say things. I am very interested right now in gene editing, CRISPR molecules. I think that's something that I do want to work on my doctoral about, because right now, CRISPR is so limited because of its ability, I mean, yes, super specific, but it's also very hard to get it to where you need it to be. And I think that if we can manage to really make that molecule as specific as we want it to be, we can cure so many genetic diseases with just one application, as opposed to other diseases that have antibodies or different proteins like insulin or other things like HIV, but the ability to just edit a gene and call it a day, do just one simple application will actually transform the way we view medicine. And I think that that's something that I want to focus on because I know that if you make a breakthrough, it will significantly catalyze everything else in the biotech industry and it'll just like spew out different medicines that fast. And so I think that's something that in the future, we really got to keep our eye on now, especially too, if you're getting into this industry and you want to like work on something that's innovative and it's just not being many people understand it yet. People are still learning about it. I think that CRISPR technology is the way to go. It's definitely interesting. When people read about CRISPR, they think to themselves, wow, this seems very complicated to work on and to like get it perfectly. But when you actually work on them, you realize it's really that simple. It's just putting things in a tube and then letting it heat up and then just making sure that what you got was correct. It's actually literally just as simple as four steps. And I think that it's super interesting because of how easy that science is. I mean, as long as you understand basic biology that you're taught like in middle school and high school about cells and all that stuff, you realize very quickly, oh, this is where this applies to. And it definitely is something that you could spend years on just discussing about because of how interesting and the many different things that you can do with it. Because like with CRISPR, you can even edit like the plants that we eat to make them more nutritious or just the different applications that you can think of. Just one simple thing is just absolutely wild. And I think that anybody that wants to work in biotech should understand CRISPR. We had bacteria that had blue ledges for simple reasons, had blue dye as its products, right? And we were trying to change the genome to where instead of blue, it'll make it white. And so it was as simple as just grabbing those cells, transforming them to allow the CRISPR molecule to enter them. And after a day or two of letting them grow in a petri dish, you saw them grow white and you just think to yourself, wow, that's amazing. And so I think the application was as simple as if you can get it to work like this in a two-hour lab, imagine what you could do in an eight-hour lab. I think that once I get my doctorate, I want to go work in industry and for like the research of medicine pretty much and big biotech companies, because after what happened with COVID, the production of the COVID vaccine in just what, in about a year or two years is fascinating because stuff like that doesn't happen very often. And I think the process of like creating a drug from the very beginning, taking it all the way through all this different trials, and then finally at the end, it gets approved. I think that's the beauty in that magic to know that you created something that can definitely help other people's lives. And I think especially too, a lot of people do this because of the personal life, they have someone in their life that does suffer from something. And so that motivates them to want to find a cure for it. And I think that that enables the motivation and the fuel for a lot of researchers, especially black and brown students to just keep on going and learn more. I think just one piece of advice that really changed me and how I'm viewed is to definitely work on yourself and teach yourself how to get out there. I think that most people live inside their own box. When you stretch outside of your box is when real progress, real change starts to happen within yourself. And I think that the earlier you begin to understand that the world is always going to be uncomfortable, and so you must learn to put yourself in an uncomfortable situation, the faster you're going to progress because other people are already doing it. And I think that if someone were to teach me that in high school, I believe that I wouldn't have failed as much as I did to get to where I am today.