Welcome to Introduction to Bioengineering at Stanford University. This is a short little tool that's great at the start of class. It's called Imagine a Bioengineer, Imagine Your Bioengineer. This tool comes from Dr. Veronica Brand, past colleague, amazing educator, super grateful for her help in developing the materials in this course and others in bioengineering. Let's get started. Again, this is a tool, an exercise you should do towards the beginning of class, and we'll do it again at the end of class if you like. Imagine a bioengineer. Now, you're going to need in a minute, pencil or pen and some scrap paper or paper, so take a moment, get that. Once you have that, the first thing to do is close your eyes, just relax, and imagine a bioengineer. It's a little bit strange because it's the beginning of class and maybe you're not sure what a bioengineer is. Nevertheless, just relax and you're like, well, what's a bioengineer? What do they look like? What are they doing? What's the scene they're in? When you stop and try and imagine a bioengineer, what comes to your mind? Take as much time as you like on this, but then once you're feeling good about it, go on to the next step and use your paper and pencil, and just draw a sketch, you know, simple stick figure, whatever, however you like to draw. Draw a sketch of the person. Where are they? What do they look like? What are they doing? What's around them? Take a few minutes, get that sketched out, and when you're ready, move on to step two. When you think about what you've imagined and what you've drawn, just write down three words, three different words that describe the bioengineer you imagined. Characteristics, anything about them that comes to your mind. Great, next step. Take a look at what you've drawn. This is an example from Veronica. Is that what a bioengineer looks like? Well, that's what she imagined. Looks like they're working at a bench. Maybe they've got safety goggles on. It's interesting. What were the words? A bioengineer is creative. Bioengineer is logical. A bioengineer is a problem solver. There's no right answer here. The exercise is just to get you to imagine what a bioengineer is at this point in the course, at the beginning of things. Next, find a friend, if you can, pair up and share your drawings. Next, compare both bioengineers that you imagined. What's the same? What's different? On a scale of zero to 100, where zero is totally different and 100 is exactly the same, how different or alike are the bioengineers that you imagined? Again, there's no wrong or right answers, just trying to orient you and begin to imagine what a bioengineer is. And that's it. However, at the end of the class, we're gonna come back and do this again. If at the start, we imagined a bioengineer, at the end of the class, your job will be to imagine your bioengineer, what you think a bioengineer is after you've taken the entire class. And I don't wanna spend too much time on it, but I'll do a quick reveal of what Veronica came up with at the end of class when she created this exercise for you. A lot more is going on and maybe a lot more interesting. We'll see what you come up with in a couple months.