on this planet with everything else. Like just that 90 terawatt fact makes that seem plausible. We also know as facts that biology reproduces, it grows, the materials heal. Very functional material, right? You can make a structure, you could sequester metals, you could grow a fiber optic cable with a sponge in the ocean, right? We also know that life matters, ramifications, right? It's like very important what's happening with life, let alone anything we do with life. So, we could adjust the facts a little bit, but not too much, because the facts are the reality of the planet and life on the planet. What's up for grabs though, is anything you put on the right of this slide. So here's my offering, but it's not a prescription, like positive dream. Let's enable 10 billion people to flourish, provide for themselves, ourselves. Let's do that in a way that doesn't trash the place. Let's stabilize and recover natural biodiversity. Let's make infectious diseases obsolete and might as well make other diseases obsolete too, like take them off the table. There's a choice here in terms of how we develop biological futures. Am I a citizen of that future? Are you a citizen of that future? What about your kids? What about your grandkids? Or are they only consumers in a biotic future or subjects or objects or something? We're still. I also have a dream that by building with biology, we'll learn how natural living systems work a little bit better. You know, you could take a bicycle apart. They kind of understand a bicycle, but if you put a bicycle together, I bet you'd understand the bicycle a lot more, right? And so learning by building is a nice outcome perhaps of bioengineering. Again, what's on the left are the facts. What's on the right is an example, not a prescription. And I encourage you to discuss and debate what should be on the right of this slide. But most of all, in the context of dreams, please, if you're going down this path, go for a positive dream, right? Towards the thing that's aspirational that we can work on collectively. What's so interesting beyond, you know, the initial bioeconomy data is the fact that even though it's booming, you know, and it's like 5% of the economy already, mostly doesn't exist. I mean, like people haven't imagined most of what biology could be. Here's one of my favorite recent examples. This is work coming out of London, England and Moscow, Russia and a US company. And these are plants. Now, when you think of plants as harvesting light and fixing carbon and emitting oxygen, these plants do that, but they've been engineered. They've been bioengineered in addition to also take some of that sugar that they make and turn it back into light. So if the plants are in the dark, they glow. If you bring one of these plants home and put it on your bookshelf or your dresser and it's dark in the room at three in the morning, you'll have a nightlight. But instead of plugging the nightlight into the electrical outlet, you're watering it because it's alive, right? Like, okay, you know, what else could we imagine bioengineering with living systems? Now, back to introduction to bioengineering, you know, if you had to learn everything about everything in biology to be a bioengineer, it's not gonna be very valuable. And one of the things that's so neat about now is the science of biology has gotten us to a starting line where we think we know enough about biology to have a general purpose bioengineering discipline. Historically, let me try and make sense of it by going back in time and thinking about the beginnings of computer science. There's a neat quote that used to be on a building here on the Stanford campus from 1961. Enough is known about the diverse applications of computing for us to recognize the birth of a coherent body of technique, which I call computer science. Whether computers are used for engineering design, like medical data processing or making music or anything, the structure of computing is pretty much the same. It doesn't change, right? Now let's just update this for bioengineering. Enough is known about the diverse applications of biology for us to recognize the birth of a coherent body of technique which we call, wait for it, bioengineering. Whether living matter is used for manufacturing, making medicines, abiotic data storage, that means putting the library inside DNA, making bio art or other purposes, the structure of engineering life from the inside out is much the same. And we're gonna have to see if this is true and prove it to you and then enable you to practice it, but that's the gist of what's going on that makes bioengineering interesting in thinking about why now. I'll give you a totally different example coming from social media. You know, seemingly random tweet from almost two years ago. Synthetic biology is about to undergo a Cambrian explosion says Eric Schmidt at a meeting somewhere in Boston it looks like. Now, Eric Schmidt's well-known for being the CEO of Google when Google became a very big company. And now he's thinking about synthetic biology. What's synthetic biology? Synthetic biology is a suite of tools we'll see in another lecture relating to how people do bioengineering. And he says it's about to undergo a Cambrian explosion. Now the Cambrian explosion is relating to a point in the history of life on earth where over a period of 10 or 20 million years you got a tremendous diversification of animal and body plants. So put all this together, like what's going on here? How do we interpret this? Option one, since the Cambrian explosion took 13 to 25 million years, maybe what Eric means is that biotechnology is gonna take another 13 to 25 million years to mature. In which case, if you're in high school or college you wanna come back in 20 million years, good luck. I don't think that's what Eric means. I think what he means instead is that the underlying approaches that will unlock all the possibilities of biotechnology, those approaches are being worked out now in real time over the last 10, 20 years and this decade such that by or before 2030, you're gonna see biology become a general purpose technology just like computing became a general purpose technology. And so what that means is in terms of why bioengineering and why now, it's looking pretty interesting, looks like there's a lot at stake. We see that reflecting back from the government. So here is an executive order from the 12th of September of 2022, signed by President Biden. Let's look at the title of this. Now an executive order is the president is instructing the executive branch of the government to do certain things. This is an executive order on advancing biotechnology and biomanufacturing innovation for sustainable, safe and secure American bioeconomy. And if you just, I'd encourage you to read the whole thing or skim it if you like. The policy here is to take a whole of government approach like all hands, the entire federal government, everybody has to figure out how to advance biotechnology and biomanufacturing towards innovative solutions in health, in climate change. Oh, note the negative there. In energy, in food security, that sounds positive. In agriculture, in supply chain resilience, positive dream there. In national and economic security, mixed. Central to this policy and its outcomes are the principles of equity, ethics, safety and security, enabling access to technologies, processes and products in a manner that benefits all Americans and the global community. And that makes sure USA is winning or in the lead or at least competitive, I'm paraphrasing. Well, that's interesting. Like all hands, says the White House just a few months ago. If you go back not even as far to October 18th of 2022, the administration is this time releasing a national security memorandum, number 15 from their term, I guess. And this one's called the National Biodefense Strategy and Implementation Plan for Countering Biological Threats, Enhancing Pandemic Preparedness and Achieving Global Health Security. Within this document, my favorite part is the vision. This is akin to the dream. It reads, the United States actively and effectively assesses, prevents, prepares for, responds to and recovers from naturally occurring, accidental or deliberate. Well, deliberate, we're gonna have to come back and talk about that. Biological threats impacting humans, animals, plants and the environment. And, and here's the best part, creates a world free from catastrophic biological incidents. So let's just like simplify. The United States creates a world free from catastrophic biological incidents. Sounds to me like no more pandemics, right? Well, we're not there yet, but that's a nice dream, right? Maybe, interesting. In any case, here's evidence that something is afoot. Something is afoot at the biggest scale on the grandest stages. Bioengineering is contributing and becoming something unlike anything we've navigated before. Which brings us back to where it started. What does it mean to be a bioengineer? Should we be bioengineers? We're not yet anywhere as capable of the things that we see here in nature. Yet each thing we see in nature is a point of inspiration, a point of instruction, a point of empathy. It's not really a point, it's more like a web or a connection or a story or something we are still gonna figure out. So I hope these remarks give you an on-ramp for yourself to think about why bioengineer? Let me offer some very accessible questions, I hope. Do you think it was inevitable that Homo sapiens would start to adapt and change living systems? Should we keep going? Could we stop? If you look at the plot on slide six around the bioeconomy growing, could you estimate how long it takes the bioeconomy to double historically? Like how many years? And if that trend continued, how big would it be in 30 years, say 2050 or whatever time you like? One of the things about bioengineering as mentioned is mostly hasn't been imagined yet, those glowing plants or who knows what else you could think of. So you could practice inventing the future, why don't you give it a try? So here's an example prompt. In a flourishing future, there is a biotechnology related to libraries. What is it? Just go invent that future thing, a biotechnology related to libraries in a world where everything's working really well. And if you like this type of prompt, see the little words I put in parentheses, flourishing and libraries, you could change that to like in a catastrophic future, there's a biotechnology related to yogurt. What is it? Right, just feel free to play with those words and keep inventing biotechnological futures and see what you can come up with. Reflective question four. And again, reflective questions. These are not homework per se, and just things to get you to think about what we've been talking about in the slides here. If you zoom out and think more broadly, we saw that there was food, medicine, and industrial chemicals as the big three slices of the pie for the bioeconomy. Is that all there is? What if you went to this point in the future after you do some invention, could you come up with entirely new sectors of biotechnology? Which ones would you like to pioneer? Question five. Setting aside all the economic stuff and the security stuff, if you just take a step back and imagine the world you wish to live in or contribute to or both, as it has to do with biology, what do you wish for? What are your emergent dreams? Things that biology could or should become or should not become? And then zooming out still further and thinking about dreams as to, I know it's a bioengineering class, but wow, one of the things from today is dreams are tools. If you can understand that, you've got a super powerful tool in your toolkit to make things that happen or not. So thinking about that, dreams as tools, the world you live in now, what bigger picture dreams coming from outside you, coming from other people, whether they're good or bad, have nothing to do with biology, but are like defined by other people. What dreams are you experiencing that are shaping the currents and context in which you're navigating? That's it for today and can't wait for next time.