Another thing you might think about here is how full this space is. You can't even see through it. You can't see to the other side of the cell. It's chock full of molecules. Maybe it's about 20% or 30% full. What I mean by that is the volume within the cell is occupied, a significant fraction of it's occupied by molecules, 20% full or 30% full. Now you might be saying, wait a minute, wait, it's only 20% full or 30% full? That doesn't sound very full, but let's do a quick estimate. The room I'm in right here, there's the door, there's the window, there's the ceiling. What fraction of this room I'm in right now is occupied by humans, by me? We could do a quick Fermi estimate. We could say I've got a room, what is it, three meters by four meters and six meters tall, so that's 72 meters cubed. What about me? I'm two meters tall and maybe 20 centimeters by 20 centimeters, so I am 0.08 meters cubed. Let's make it 0.1 meters cubed. If the room is 72 meters, let's just make it 100 meters cubed. If I'm 0.1 meters cubed and the room is 100 meters, I'm occupying 0.1% of the room. The room's practically empty. That seems like maybe I got that wrong. Let's try a different way. Let me just stand. How many of me can I go side by side? I think it's maybe 15 in this direction, and if I go the other direction, it's eight, and then probably stack two of me in this room. You could get 240 of me in this room, and there's just one of me, so yeah, actually, the initial estimate of 0.1% seems pretty good. The other approach gives me 0.25%. Think of the room you're in right now. What fraction of the space in the room is occupied with people? My guess is it's less than a percent or two, whereas the molecules inside the cell are 10 times more densely packed. How they relate to each other, how they interact, how they get around is going to be just viscerally very different. I'm belaboring this because I'm hoping that you imagine yourself transported in this molecular milieu and begin to have empathy for what these molecules must experience. To the extent you can gain that feeling, you're going to have a better foundation for becoming a bionaut, for being a bioengineer. Last part for today, 21st century tools. This is an amazing microscopy movie from Caltech, Grant Jensen's lab. They take a bacterium, they put it in a microscope, an electron microscope, and they make slices and slices and slices of it to see where all the molecules are. Then they take all that data and they put it into a fancy computer simulation program and they make a cartoon representation of this bacterial cell. Now we get to fly inside it and look at where some of the molecules are. This is one of my favorite bacterium because what's focused on here in this section of the visualization of the microscopy data is what is called a magnetotactic array of particles. If we take just a snapshot of what this microscope can generate, what we're looking at here is a slice of a bacteria, it's about one, one and a half microns long. You can see the outer membrane, which is the outside boundary, that's abbreviated OM. The inner membrane, IM, and then you see those dark black specks towards the middle running left to right. Those are actually magnetic granules or complexes of iron that the bacteria has grown and organized into a linear array such that it has some ability to interact with magnetic fields. Did you know that there are microbes that can build magnetic arrays and interact with the Earth's magnetic field? Meanwhile, we can see all the other things inside this cell to a degree. The arrow with the letter R pointing at a little dark speck, that's a ribosome where proteins are made. The thing in the middle that looks like this medium dark bleb, PHB, I believe that to be polyhydroxybutyrate. I think of it as a strategic oil reserve or an energy reserve for this cell and so on. This type of microscopy only really became possible in this century and is becoming practical now. It's called cryo-electron microscopy or tomographic cryo-electron microscopy, where you use an electron microscope to take a series of images and tilt the sample such that you can make a three-dimensional reconstruction of what the cell looks like and see where the molecules are. You can learn more about it via the links and so on. I just want to give you a taste of what an incredible time to become a bioengineer where suddenly we can see where all the molecules are as they build cells. The next type of tool is computing. Now we've already looked at a type of simulation of cytoplasm, but what about the molecules? Here's a news story from July of 2022. Scientists use artificial intelligence or machine learning to make predictions for the shapes of almost every protein they could get sequences for, 200 million proteins, 200 million proteins. So I remember when this came out, we were teaching the class. Before the class started, we didn't have predictions that we could easily access for all the proteins making up biology. At the end of the class, we did because this modeling tool suddenly appeared. Let me give you one more example of a 21st century tool. And we'll use the pandemic, the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic to illustrate these tools. When the pandemic started in late 2019 and early 2020, infected people through travel started moving the pandemic all across the world. If we use Switzerland as an example, we can look at the public health records and see that the first case in Switzerland was reported on the 25th of February of 2020 and is thought to have come in over the Italian border, which is what this little photograph is showing, the border up in the top of the mountains between Italy and Switzerland. So the 25th of February, that's when the first case arrives in Switzerland. But it turns out that's not when the virus first got to Switzerland. Then what happened is the virus is first discovered in China. We can use the tool of DNA sequencing or reading out the DNA of a life form to take the genome that's a physical object and turn it into a digital representation of A's, T's, C's, and G's, the sequence of the DNA. So by using the tool of DNA sequencing, around the 10th of January of 2020, researchers in China had read out the genome of SARS-CoV-2, and then they put that information on the Internet. And once it's on the Internet, you can move it around the world at the speed of light. Almost immediately, researchers in the Swiss capital downloaded the information and then used another 21st century bioengineering tool that we'll talk a lot more about, DNA synthesis or DNA printing, to take the sequence that is specified to encode the virus and organize chemicals in the right order to remake that sequence from scratch. So in China, you go from atoms, the genome, to bits, the sequence. The sequence moves around the Internet. In Switzerland, you go from the bits and re-synthesize the genome from scratch using a DNA printer. And that DNA, once you make it, is just a template, so then you have to read it off and make RNA and then get that RNA into cells to infect the cells. And they did all that, all those things, in a laboratory, and infected cells in a laboratory and got live SARS-CoV-2 infections by or before the 13th of February of 2020. Now just compare these two dates. The pandemic arrived on the 25th of February, but bioengineering tools of reading DNA, plus the Internet, plus the bioengineering tool of writing DNA, got the virus to the Swiss capital almost two weeks before. We can transmit DNA programs by the Internet. Lots more to say about that. All right, so it's a very interesting time to be interacting with living matter because it's all over the place, because it's local, because it's evolved, because it's got incredible physics, and because we've got amazing tools emerging for measuring biology, modeling biology, and making biology. So let's end with a few questions for practice, just to help you reflect. What's the strangest life form you know about? Or what's the most surprising place you can find that life exists on Earth? Feel free to search online. Why do we depend on so many factories? If you go back a couple hundred years, they're not huge numbers of factories. Factories are a relatively recent thing, so why do we depend on them? Factories for making solar panels, for example. And if biology teaches us that all atoms are local and promises at least a complementary approach to making, what must be true for distributed biobased making to compete in the future with centralized, industrialized manufacturing? It's not that complicated, but it's important to think through, like, well, you know, if we really wanted to unlock this superpower biology, what would have to make that practical? From a system design and human understanding perspective, what's the difference between a bicycle and a bacteria? And again, from a system design perspective, from a human understanding perspective, can you list all the ways that a bicycle and a bacteria are different? What causes molecules inside cells to move randomly? Something to do with the water? Why is the water moving? I dare you to think about this question as deeply as you can. What tools for measuring, modeling, or making with biology can you imagine already exist? If you just said, you know, I bet bioengineers can measure this or model that, like an electrical engineer could use the ohm to describe resistivity of current flowing in a wire. We have units for measuring resistance. Could you imagine? Do we have units for measuring gene expression or, well, anyway, if you just stop and think about bioengineering, what tools would you imagine exist and write them down? And then if you could wish for some tools, you might as well write those down too. That'll be useful. I don't know if you got it, but go back a couple of slides. The internet plus bioengineering got a human pathogen to another country faster than the pandemic. Does that surprise you? Is that exciting that you can move biocode around? Is there a bionet in our future? Is it nerve wracking? Is it scary? How do you think about that? Thank you. 