in a different way. They think, why don't we try engineering yeast to produce this compound instead? Then we can move from the field where conditions are variable to fermenters where we control everything. Okay, now how do you do that? How do you engineer a bacteria to produce this medicinal compound that's usually found in a shrub? Well, you need some background information. You have to know how the plant cells, the cells of that Artemisia annua shrub produce artemisinin. And fortunately, there had been a lot of work on plant genetics to figure out exactly which genes encoded in Artemisia annua's genome lead to the production of artemisinin. So this is just showing you all of the compounds that are intermediates as you move from acetyl-CoA, which is a part of central metabolism, all the way to artemisinin. And in bold uppercase letters are the genes encoding enzymes that are responsible for making artemisinin from acetyl-CoA. And what you'll notice on this slide is that there are a lot of steps to go from acetyl-CoA to artemisinin. And there are a lot of genes that do those chemical reactions. And so it's not going to be an easy feat to try to move all of these genes from this plant into yeast, but there's a researcher at Berkeley who really wants to try. So Professor Jay Kiesling at UC Berkeley initiates a project in his lab to express all of the enzymes necessary for artemisinin production in yeast. And he's able to achieve 25 grams per liter production of this compound in yeast just by putting these genes from the plant into yeast. And this is really exciting to people who work in bioengineering. And it's an example of new technology being used to try to change the way that medicine scale up occurs, but there's some market resistance. So there are people who are maybe not as happy with the use of genetically engineered yeast to make medicines because it's not making a whole lot at first, that titer, although pretty good, could be higher and the process of producing artemisinin in yeast could yield more artemisinin per cell. And people were excited to kind of see it there and were maybe a little disappointed at first at the yields, but also there are social factors at play here where people whose whole livelihood was to farm this shrub in order to produce artemisinin were going to potentially be put out of a job by bioengineers who had taken their whole process and moved it into a fermenter. And so there were some kinks to work out, but the kind of financial drivers, this need to produce low-cost medicines really got the Gates Foundation involved, which helped push scale up to see if we can produce 25 grams per liter of artemisinin in the lab, how much can we produce when we start moving these engineered yeast into bigger and bigger bioreactors. I am listing a bunch of news articles here, mostly because I would encourage you to read them, to see kind of how this new bioengineering invention was sort of received and how it's kind of found its way to where it is now, where artemisinin is being, sorry, yeast produced artemisinin is really being much more heavily embraced and pointed to as a great innovation in bioengineering in solving a key problem in medicine, which is scale up or contributing a solution, I should say. Okay, so those are treatments or those are the stories of the development of medicines to treat syphilis and malaria. And I just wanna put them into context for you. So remember at the beginning of this lecture, I said that I wanted you to pay attention to the steps to creating new medicines. Remember, we need to identify a potential medicine test to see if it works and then scale up production. Well, if we think of Plasmodium falciparum, the parasite that causes malaria as a new medicine, then the step, this first step, identify a potential medicine occurs when someone observes fever reducing, that a fever reduces syphilitic symptoms, right? And then that leads them to test Plasmodium falciparum as a fever inducer, right? So they think, okay, a fever could be used to treat syphilis. And I know that Plasmodium falciparum causes a pretty high fever. And so I'm going to test it as a fever inducer. The scale up in this case is sort of weird. The doctors were sourcing parasites from malaria patients. This is certainly not as widely adopted as of a practice as any of the other drugs that we talked about today, but it is how this particular treatment was sourced. So I wanted to put it in here. Maybe you can think of a better way to source Plasmodium falciparum for the treatment of syphilis. Okay, so actually I do want to just say that we don't treat syphilis with Plasmodium falciparum today. Syphilis is caused by a bacterium and we have antibiotics that can kill it. And so if you were to contract syphilis today, you would get an antibiotic from your doctor and that would cure you. Please don't seek out malaria as a treatment for a disease that's much easier to cure today than it was in the 1850s. Okay, so now let's think about cinchona bark or quinine as a new medicine. So colonialists observed the Quechua people treating fevers with cinchona bark that led them to the hypothesis that cinchona bark can be used to treat malaria because malaria also has fever as one of its symptoms. They sent cinchona bark back to Europe to be tested as a treatment against malaria. I should say the fact that cinchona bark was being, the diseases that the Quechuan people were treating with cinchona bark were not malaria. It just was fortunate that this compound happened or this bark happened to work against malaria and the other ailments that the Quechuan people were treating. I don't want you to think that they were already treating malaria. Okay, so they sent this bark back to Europe as a treatment. So that's how they were testing to see if it worked with people. And then to scale up production, they decided to create large plantations of cinchona trees. Now that is problematic and there are better ways to produce a lot of medicine. I think bioengineering can have an impact in streamlining these processes of medicinal development and scale up and can avoid situations where we feel like we need to plant very large quantities of a tree, for example, in order to get a lot of medicine. Okay, chloroquine as a new medicine. Here, the identifying a potential medicine and testing to see if it worked was being, these two steps were being done simultaneously. So here scientists are screening a large chemical library of dyes for the ability to cure birds of malaria. And so that didn't necessarily spawn from a fortunate observation, but from a directed screen. And then they scaled up production through chemical synthesis because they already knew they could synthesize this molecule. And then finally we have artemisinin as a new medicine. This was also a situation where the screen and the testing to see whether or not it works were kind of hand in hand. But I want you to think about how you might innovate in each of these areas and how the advancement of science or ability to have models of diseases and to engineer organisms to produce a lot of compounds really changed the way we search for new medicines and the way we scale up production. But just because we have new methods of doing this doesn't mean that some of those old school observational methods are worthless. It's still worth looking around you to see if there are things about the world that you observe that might be or lead to a new medicine sometime in the future.