essential for it to function correctly. The reason glycosylation, so bacteria don't do any glycosylation and then glycosylation varies across organisms. So yeast, insects, plants, non-human mammals, and humans all encode different enzymes that attach sugars onto proteins. And so those will result in different glycosylation patterns and therefore it can be difficult to use something like a yeast to make a human protein therapeutic because it's possible that the yeast will add sugars onto the protein that are not the same as the sugars that a human cell would add on. And therefore the proteins coming out of yeast may have different activities than the ones coming out of human cells. Okay, so there's actually more than just, E. coli and yeasts and plants that you can express or use to produce medicines. These are some of the most common production hosts. There's E. coli that we already talked about, yeast, you can grow mammalian cell lines. And so these are cells that are isolated from mammals, sometimes humans in order and then grown in the lab. Usually they're isolated from cancer samples so that the cells can continue to grow and divide indefinitely. Cancer is overproliferation or the continued growth of cells that actually shouldn't be growing in your body. But when you take them out of the body, those cells can be useful because they continue to grow and produce a lot of cell material for you to work with. There are also insect cell lines and insect cell lines is the same idea as the mammalian cell lines. It's just the peas are derived from insects. So here, what you're looking at are a whole bunch of different pluses and minuses to working with each of these production hosts. So E. coli, like we mentioned, has no glycosylation. And then if you go down this table, you'll see that we sort of colored them by how close to human glycosylation the organism is able to produce. But there are other considerations than just glycosylation patterns, right? The mammalian cell lines can have perfect human glycosylation, but they're harder to genetically modify relative to E. coli and actually the yeast and even insect cell lines. They are relatively slow growing. There's high risk for virus contamination and they're very expensive. The medias that they grow in are much more expensive than the ones that we grow E. coli yeast or even plants in. So I encourage you to spend a little bit of time looking at this table and thinking about like which of these things are gonna be most important to you if you're trying to make a medicine of interest. It let's say you're not trying to work with a, or you're not trying to produce a protein-based therapeutic. Maybe you don't care about the glycosylation state then. And so you can work with either E. coli or yeast. It's just one example of something to consider. Now, these are the benefits and drawbacks of these types of cells or organisms unmodified. The bioengineers have been working on modifying these things in order to improve them, make them better production hosts. So yeast can actually be what's called humanized to enable production of correctly glycosylated proteins. This is how yeast would usually glycosylate proteins, but by knocking out specific enzymes from the yeast genome and then adding enzymes that are usually found in humans, you can change the glycosylation patterns and make them identical or at least much more similar to the human glycosylation patterns. And then these humanized yeast become really good production hosts for protein-based therapeutics that have to be glycosylated. Another technology advance is to get high concentrations of proteins out of CHO cells. So CHO stands for Chinese hamster ovary, the type of mammalian cell line that's really easy to work with in terms of bioproduction because it can be grown in fermenters. A lot of human cell lines have to be grown on solid substrates. So you can imagine just like a whole sheet of cells that are growing. That kind of makes sense. Most of the cells in your body are attached to one another and they're happiest when they're got something solid to hold on to. These cells seem to be okay in batch culture and you can up, but they unfortunately are not as good at producing large quantities of protein as things like yeast or E. coli. One of the things that people figured out is that if you treat CHO cells with a drug called methotrexate, a specific region of the genome where a enzyme to deal with methotrexate is encoded will start to amplify itself. The cell will actually just make many more copies of that piece of DNA. And so if the gene to deal with methotrexate is colored red here, you can put your gene of interest here. You can pretend that it's blue gene, as long as it's close enough to the methotrexate induced gene. And you can get lots of copies of your gene of interest too and drive really high expression of your protein of interest. So I think that's exciting. Okay, so I wanted to do a quick shout out to my favorite production host. I am a plant genetic engineer. And so I wanted to take a second to talk about molecular farming. One of the advantages of engineering plants to produce medicinal compounds, which actually is the thing that people do is that it's easy to scale production. So again, this would be the movement of compounds from a really slow growing plant into something that's faster growing or production of protein therapeutics that a plant wouldn't usually make at all. And so you can engineer the plant to produce them and then get a lot of seeds and use all the infrastructure that we currently have in place to farm things in order to get a large quantity of whatever compound or protein of interest you're trying to make. And the nice thing about this is you don't need really expensive reagents. You don't need really expensive gross medias in order to make a lot of the plant. But you do need to purify your protein or compound of interest out of the plant at the end, which can be time consuming. Okay, so that was kind of a crash course in all of the cool things that we've been doing in bioengineering to try to up production or sourcing, screening and scaling of medicine. But it is just a crash course. There's so much more. So I encourage you to start looking into all of the different ways that bioengineering is impacting the development of medicine. The papers that I've linked here are really good starts in that direction. But I also encourage you just to think about how medicine development can be innovated on even further. Can you think of new ways to source medicines or screen to see whether or not they're functional or scale production?