We're going to explore first the idea of molecular diffusion, and once we get a basic understanding of that, move on to think about how we go from molecular diffusion to synthetic biological behaviors. So let's jump in and see what's going on and what we can make with it. The photo here is of a frog egg, you know, a frog, and it's just sitting there. It hasn't turned into a frog yet. And I want you to think about these questions. What is underneath how life works? Why does a frog egg turn into a frog? Why is it happening? So it turns out this image is from a movie, a historical film, an incredible film of frog development. So let's take a look and see what's happening. Again, we're starting here, looking just at a frog egg, ready to go. Here we go. We see this cell divide, it looks like, in the two... Why did that end in four cells? Wait a minute. Why is this happening? Let's go back in time. It was just sitting here. We have one big cell, and suddenly it's starting to change and do things. I don't see anything coming in from the outside, like cutting and dividing and making all of this happen. It's all happening from the inside out. Everything underneath and inside this living matter is causing all of these changes of behaviors, these cell division events. Oh, look at what's happened now. Just keeps going. Why is this happening? If we fast forward, we start to see forms and shapes appear, starting to begin to look like the body plan of an animal, and eventually we get tadpoles, and eventually a frog. But remember where all this started, right? We had a cell, and it started to spontaneously divide, and then differentiate, and turn into a tadpole and then a frog. We know that cells are comprised of biomolecules, and we know that life happens in water. The molecules within a cell are mostly suspended in water. Of course, there's other things in there too, but for now, let's just think of it as biomolecules suspended in water. On the left is an image of a simple, quote unquote, simple microorganism, not a frog. On the right, we've seen this before, is a beautiful representation, a representation of how the molecules might be organized in this cell. The green in the bottom shows us the outer membrane or shell of the cell. And then in purple, we see, I don't know if those are ribosomes for making proteins, and then maybe in yellow, we've got DNA or RNA. Not quite sure, but we could figure it out. Oh no, it looks like maybe the RNA is in this pinker color, and the yellow must be the DNA. It's so interesting, once you can see things, you can begin, what would it be? What could it be? Now these images, they're static. They don't answer the question of like, how did that egg turn into a frog? Let's keep going. Now in keeping it going, I also want to help us and challenge us to develop a deeper empathy for what it's like to be one of these molecules, what it's like to be a cell. The tool I like to use is a magic wand, and it's a certain type of magic wand. It's a magic wand that lets us make things bigger. We can use it in this case, cells are tiny, so let's use this magic wand to make a cell a lot bigger, just so we can help think about it. And when we start to imagine things moving around, hopefully we'll be more comfortable with what might be going on. So I've listed in the middle here, different types of molecules or objects we can find in cells. A water molecule, two hydrogens and one oxygen, or a base pair of DNA, an A and a T base pairing in this case, GFP is a green fluorescent protein. Maybe our cell has a little protein that's green when you excite it with a wavelength of light. A bilayer, this is lipids that make a membrane that could encapsulate the cell or regions within the cell. The ribosome, a combination of molecules that when you give it messenger RNA and other inputs, it can make proteins. A phage, phage are only in cells if they're infected. A phage is a type of virus for bacteria. The full name for phage would be bacteriophage, which means eater of bacteria. mRNA, messenger RNA, that's going to instruct the ribosome what protein to make. The genome, the DNA template that when transcribed makes the RNA that then gets transcribed. So these aren't all the types of molecules we'll find in a cell, but some ones that we'll talk about again and you should know about. Cells are tiny. So if we use a example cell, say E. coli, the bacterium that lives inside the human gut, how big are these molecules? So E. coli roughly is one millionth of a meter long. Sometimes it's a little bit bigger and it's shaped like a tube or a cylinder, about one micron or one millionth of a meter long. And that's notated by one E minus six. This means shorthand for one times 10 to the minus sixth meters, or one millionth of a meter. Okay, so how big is a water molecule? How big are all these other molecules? And you can see a water molecule is about 2.8 times 10 to the minus 10th of a meter. A nanometer would be one times 10 to the negative nine. So this is not even a nanometer. It's 28% of a nanometer, it looks like. How about a base pair of DNA? 3.4 times 10 to the minus 10th meters. What about this green fluorescent protein? Oh, it's about three nanometers or 30 tenths of a nanometer. I'm keeping everything in one times 10 to the minus 10th, just so you can compare it more easily. Proteins about this protein, a typical protein, maybe three nanometers in diameter. You know, bilayer, four nanometers or 40 tenths of a nanometer. Ribosome looks like it's approximately, you know, 20 nanometers. And the phage, 580 tenths of a nanometer or 58 nanometers. RNA, 3,000 tenths of a nanometer. The genome, 1.6 millimeters. I jumped there, right? Genome's like big, looks like it's going back. This is incredible to think about. It looks like a genome in a bacterium like E. coli is so long, it's going back and forth over a thousand times just to fit within the cell. Now it's very skinny, but watch, it's going back and forth, back and forth. And it's not necessarily organized literally like a cable, but it's like, hmm. Now, of course, these things are moving. And this is what, you know, our current discussion will end up being about. So this GFP, we can represent how quickly it's moving. And we'll make more sense in a few slides, but roughly it's moving about six microns or six times 10 to the minus ninth meters per second. Excuse me, six times 10 to the minus sixth microns per second. A micron is a millionth of a meter. All right. So see what I mean? Like cells are tiny. These numbers, they're real or approximately real. And by the way, there's a great site on the internet called bio numbers where you can get quick access to a lot of numbers like this will be useful in your back of the envelope calculations as a bioengineer. But, you know, unless you've already been operating at the scale of angstroms and nanometers in your life, it's like, it's hard to have empathy or make sense of this. So that's why I like this magic wand. So what we're going to do is we're going to take E.coli and we say, boom, boom, boom. It's a hundred million times bigger. We're going to multiply all the dimensions by a factor of 10 to the eighth or a hundred million. Not going to go a billion. That'd be too big. But like, let's see what happens when we go with a hundred million. So we're going to multiply all these dimensions by a hundred million. And we're just making a bigger cell. We're not adding more atoms, but just like magically everything's bigger so we can see what it feels like. Now, when I make something a hundred million times bigger, and originally it was a micron. Now it's about a hundred meters long, you know, like multiply one times 10 to the minus six times one times 10 to the eighth, you get a hundred. So, so now we have our magical cell and it's about a hundred meters long, which conveniently is about the size of the bioengineering building at Stanford. Which is called the Sriram Center for Bioengineering and Chemical Engineering. And so we're going to call this magically enlarged cell, a Shariki of Sriram. E Sriram. Suddenly it's like a lot easier. I don't know about you, but it's going to be a lot easier for me to think about, you know, what's going on inside this object. So water molecule is suddenly 2.8 centimeters. Oh, that feels nice. You know, it's like an inch and a base pair of DNA. It's suddenly much more accessible. It's like 3.4 centimeters roughly. And this green fluorescent protein that was so tiny before three nanometers. Ah, yeah. It's 30 centimeters. What is that? Like the size of a, of a basketball or football, approximately the bi-layer encapsulating things, you know, 40 centimeters, almost half a meter. The ribosome, the ribosome is making proteins. Yeah. It's two meters tall. It's about six feet tall. That feels friendly. Like I can deal with that. The phage, this virus that be infecting a cell is kind of intimidating. It's six meters. Wow. Interesting to think about that. You know, it's like a two-story building. The mRNA that's being translated to make a protein. It's, it's about a hundred feet long. It's like a little string, 30 meters long. The genome encoding all the DNA is 160 kilometers. And if you, not that it looks this way, but if you packed it up in the building and, and had it be like really densely configured, you know, back and forth, back and forth, back and forth, back and forth, back and forth, 1600 times, the cross-section of that bundle would be about four, four meters square. Right. So that's kind of interesting. Like it fits. It all fits within this hundred meter, hundred meter building. Now, remember things are moving, right? I mean, something is causing life to happen. That frog embryo develops. The ribosome makes proteins for the ribosome to make protein. It either has to move along messenger RNA or spool and pull the messenger RNA through it. And, and we know that it's running at about 50 nucleotides or letters on the RNA per second, depending on conditions, but like roughly that fast. And so we can do the math, like how long is the base pair. And if we're transiting, you know, uh, 50 bases a second or nucleotides a second and each base is this long. Oh yeah. You know, like that ribosome is moving at about 1.7 meters per second. That's a brisk walk, right? It's not a sprinter. It's not like the a hundred meter dash, right? You do a hundred meter dash and 10 seconds, you know, you're fast. Right. And, and so like a sprinter is running at 10 meters a second, maybe a little bit faster than that, depending how great you are. You know, so ribosomes like walking along fast walk, um, this, this green fluorescent protein is example protein. That's the size of a football, soccer ball, basketball. Yeah. Um, it's moving. It looks like 650 meters a second. I don't know how you think about that for me. That's just like, whoa. Remember the whole cell size of a building is only a hundred meters. And I've got proteins in this object, size of basketballs, and they are zooming around at almost a kilometer a second. And I think we'll have to figure this out. This is actually not like the instantaneous velocity as we'll see, but this is the average displacement over time. So in the super microscopic, it might actually appear to be going even faster. Okay. But hopefully I really invite you to explore and walk around Escherichia shriram, the cell, the size of a building, um, because suddenly you can get a sense of like the relative sizes and how things are moving roughly. And how does it all fit together? Right. So fun to think about Escherichia shriram. So we've seen this video before. I want to reuse it to go inside this building and remind us of a couple of things, but also come back to the question, like what's underlying life happening. This is a computer simulation of molecules comprising cytoplasm of a bacteria, you know, like most of the molecules people know about. And the molecules, they're all biomolecules have different colors depending on what they are. And you can see they're just jostling around. They're moving around seemingly randomly. Like what's causing them to move? They have little like rocket jets. No, that we don't see any evidence of rocket jets or, you know, as somebody coming in there with a stick and like poke, poke, poke, poke, poke, lots of sticks, poking this around. Not from the outside, at least. And what's not shown here is what these molecules are suspended within. Are they in a vacuum of space? No, they're inside a cell. And we know on our planet, right, life operates mostly within water, almost exclusively. And so the invisible thing not shown here are the water molecules. And so we know this jostling is happening within a watery milieu. We'll come back and look at this video again once we understand diffusion. A little bit better. Remember what happens if you freeze a living system? Won't be living, right? If the ice crystals disrupt the structures, then it's broken forever. But yeah, you know, like things moving in water, that movement is essential for life as we know it. And so that's interesting, right? We could change how quickly things are moving by changing the temperature. In 1827, there's an important brief account. Look at the title of this. We've talked about reading research papers. Here's one from 1827. A brief account of microscopical observations made in the months of June, July, and August of 1827 of the particles contained in the pollen of plants and on the general existence of active molecules in inorganic and organic bodies by Robert Brown. This is a really important research paper, to say the least. And Mr. Brown, among other things, was apparently interested in life. And if you looked at objects derived from living systems, like the pollen of plants, he could observe that grains of pollen suspended in liquid just jostle around, are moving around by themselves, seemingly randomly. Maybe this capacity to move around spontaneously is the secret essence underlying life, that there is some life essence within living systems that causes this apparent spontaneous movement. My understanding is one of the experiments he tried was to take grains of pollen and observe their motion, as shown here, and then to take some of those samples and cook them, basically autoclave them, sterilize them, so that the grains of pollen would still be there, but they'd be dead. So that any life force or essence within them that was causing this spontaneous movement should go away, because they'd be killed, right? But they'd still be these physical grains of pollen, they'd just be killed. Interestingly enough, when you do that, they still move. Something else is causing the pollen grains to move about. Brown's work is going to be developed over time into what is recognized as Brownian diffusion, or spontaneous motion of objects suspended in water or another solution. Here are two representations of this. Again, very simple computer simulations in two dimensions, in this case. And I encourage you to look at the links below if you want to go deep on this. But for an introductory course, I just want to get a sense of what's going on. So first, let's look at the movie on the left. We are going to have particles moving around. They're moving around in a circular motion. We are going to have particles moving around. They're moving around randomly. And some of the particles have been colored yellow. And the yellow particles are going to follow their traces over time to see how they're moving. And of course, the particles might run into each other, and they'll be moving around. So let's just see what happens. They're moving around pretty fast. And the traces shown in blue are kind of all over the place. It's just, I don't know, I'd describe it as random. Now, of course, if we wanted to claim they were random, we would have to really carefully validate the statistics of the trajectories. But it looks random to me. It's really fast. The movie on the right is a little bit different. We've got, it's exactly the same as the left, except one of the particles suspended in solution is big. This big yellow particle right in the middle, at least to start. And so let's run that movie.