want to focus on diffusion for now. We'll get into the details of how to make these genetic programs later this week, but at a high level, you know, what this genetic program is, is there's an oscillator. I'm showing that as a pendulum, right, but it's not literally like a swinging mass or weight inside. No, it's going to be like genetically encoded proteins and other bio-gizmos. So we've got this oscillator, and then of course the cells are turning blue or not, so there must be something to make them blue. So we've got a reporter that's the light bulb that's telling us what state the clock is in, and then there's this coupling device that's somehow telling the cells within a single biopixel, you know, how to behave the same, and then telling the pixels across the array how to behave the same, right. So that's probably what's in each individual cell. Great, and there's something that's diffusing within the pixels that's coordinating the behavior of the individual cells, and there's something that's diffusing across the entire array that's coordinating the behavior of the pixels across the array. Slightly different schematic, how this looks like as a physical object. We have these crypts or, you know, like little closets, if you will, and the bacterial cells, 5,000 or so at a time, are growing and dividing. Each pixel has its own crypt. There's fresh media or food for the cells flowing through a channel. There are three walls to this crypt, and so if the cells get pushed out, they get swept away, and so that means, you know, the cells that are left are the ones that happen to be inside and didn't get pushed out. Kind of dramatic, and there's all these different pixels all over the place in this regular grid with each have their own cells, and then they're showing us that there's a blue molecule or cyan colored molecule dissolved AHL, and that's the diffusing molecule within the individual pixel that's coordinating the behavior of the cells in that pixel, and then there's another molecule, these orange circles, H2O2, hydrogen peroxide vapor, and that looks to be diffusing or moving across the pixels, so that must be what's coordinating the behavior across the whole array, and so let's look a little bit more into the details of AHL, whatever that is, and H2O2, which we know what that is. So AHL is a chemical called acyl homoserine lactone, A-H-L, A for acyl, homoserine, H for homoserine, L for lactone, so AHL for short, and this is a molecule that was found among other places in bacteria, Vibrio fischeri, if I remember right, that live in the light organ of the Pacific bobtail squid, and if that sounds interesting, you should just go look up what the Pacific bobtail squid is. It's an amazing creature, and from what I remember, when it hunts near dusk, it actually uses bacteria in a light organ to emit light to mask its shadow, so to do like more stealthy grabbing of the things it needs to eat, and to coordinate when the lights turn on, the light is made by bacteria, the bacteria coordinate their behavior by accumulating this diffusing molecule, A-H-L. Now it looks like Arthur and Jeff have repurposed this diffusing molecule to instead of, you know, being squid hunting for food, it's coordinating the synchronization of oscillations through diffusing in these biopixels, so that's A-H-L, and you can learn more about it on Wikipedia, the link here, and this is what the chemical structure looks like. It's got a carbon ring, and then a nitrogen, and then one, two, three, four, five, six more carbons, so you get a sense of it. It's about a, you know, 15, 16, you know, getting rid of, there's about 20 atom molecule. Cool, what about hydrogen peroxide, H2O2? Well, it's the water with extra oxygen, right, so that's going to be much tinier than A-H-L, right, it's only got two oxygens, right, it's it's, yeah, probably 10 times smaller in mass, and not quite 10 times smaller in radius, and it looks like it's, the A-H-L is diffusing in water, where the hydrogen peroxide is diffusing in vapor, so that's, it's probably faster, just vapor relative to water, but again, it's smaller, so it's going to be going faster regardless. Cool, so we've got this one molecule diffusing in water in the pixels, and that's coordinating the pixel behavior, the cells within the pixel behavior rather, and then this other molecule, hydrogen peroxide, diffusing across the whole array, and that's synchronizing the individual pixels in the array. Awesome, now let's go back and look and see if we understand this better. So this is an individual pixel, we see about 5,000 cells in this pixel, they're running a genetic oscillator, when the oscillator is at midnight or noon, their cells are blue, and at 6 a.m. or 6 p.m. the cells are dark. I don't mean that literally, like, that's the time on the clock, I'm just giving you a sense of, like, tracking an oscillation in a clock, and so the cells, like, want to be doing a different thing, they want to be different, they want to be noisy, but somehow this diffusing molecule is causing this oscillator to lock in, to entrain, to synchronize across all the cells. Pretty cool, we're using diffusion, a random process, to create a more regular deterministic behavior. Amazing. Now if we go and look at the whole array again, their pixels aren't behaving, they're doing their own thing. Oh, nope, they're locked in, they've entrained, this hydrogen peroxide vapor has somehow communicated across the whole array, okay, this is when we should be blue, this one should be dark, blue, dark, blue, like, that's being coordinated through the random diffusion of hydrogen peroxide. There's no electrical wiring, you know, causing all this to happen, we're getting this coordination and control through random diffusion. So let's end with a couple reflective questions. How might random diffusion of biomolecules contribute to physical diversity among genetically identical cells? Go back and think about the repressilator, and, you know, like, why did the cells become different, even though they're genetically the same? Second, how can, just reflect, how can spontaneous diffusion of molecules be used to create reliable behavior across populations of cells, like we just saw? Make sure you can puzzle with that. Here's a good one, this will be the last one. Is there an upper limit to how far random diffusion can be used to control behavior, cellular behavior? Like, the biopixel array we just saw, that was good for tens of millimeters, centimeters or so. Could you use diffusion to coordinate behavior across meters, tens of meters, kilometer, longer? What limits, remember, you now know what controls the diffusion coefficient, how far something will move per unit time. You also have a sense of how big molecules are, so is there an upper limit, a practical upper limit, for how far we could use random diffusion to coordinate behavior? Okay, great, that's all for now.