We've just learned about molecular diffusion, and now we're gonna see how it applies in bioengineering. Can we sculpt and shape and program synthetic behaviors? So let's get into it, see what we can do. Remember, in the first week of the material for bioengineering, we were talking about reading papers. So let's use that tool real quick. Here's a paper, 23 years old. Maybe it's older than most of you now, which is incredible. A synthetic oscillatory network of transcriptional regulators. Oscillatory network, an oscillating system. Transcription, that's the reading out of DNA to make RNA. Regulators, things that regulate transcription. Synthetic, we've made this oscillatory network from scratch, maybe. Michael Elowitz and Stan Liebler. Let's look at the abstract. Networks of interacting biomolecules carry out many essential functions, okay. But the design principles underlying the functioning of such intracellular networks remains poorly understood. Despite intensive efforts, including analysis and so on. Okay, remember, we're looking for the claim and oftentimes active voice, you know, okay, first person. Here, we present a complementary approach to this problem. That's not really a great claim. The design and construction of a synthetic network to implement a picture, this is a generic claim. We need something more specific. We used, okay, good. We used three transcription repressors that are not part of any natural biological clock to build an oscillating network termed the repressolator. And that's a good claim. So let's highlight that. Any other claims? The network periodically induces synthesis of a green protein as a readout of the clock. And the resulting oscillations, which are typically hours long, are slower than the cell division. Okay, interesting. So the state is transmitted. The state of the clock is transmitted, okay. And this clock displays noisy behavior, possibly because of stochastic, which means random, fluctuations of its components. Remember, in molecular diffusion, in Brownian diffusion, we have molecules moving around randomly at the individual microscopic level, and that results in bulk behavior, which can be represented more smoothly. So this is kind of an interesting statement down here as it might relate to Brownian diffusion. Inside cells, things are moving around randomly. Okay, well, let's take a look. We're not gonna spend a lot of time on this paper, but we're just gonna use it to set up a second example that'll let us explore diffusion even more. So let's jump into this paper and look for the evidence. It turns out this paper is so cool. I'd encourage you to read the whole thing, but one of the cool things about the paper is the movie you can find. So let's take a look at the movie, and we're looking for an oscillator or a clock that's been built and operating inside cells. Again, this work's done by Michael Elowitz, Mike Elowitz, now a professor at Caltech down in Pasadena, California. What we're looking at here in this movie, and you can find the movie yourself online through Vimeo or Michael's website. The links are at the bottom. What we're looking at is a microscopic movie, a time-lapse of a sheet of E. coli cells growing and dividing in a two-dimensional plane. And we're only looking at the state of the clock. So we're not just looking at the cells in normal light. We're looking at the state of the cells as measured by fluorescence, and the fluorescence is coming from a fluorescent protein. And so we're only seeing the cells showing up when the clock, let's say, is at midnight. And then when the clock's at 6 a.m. or 6 p.m., the cells are dark. And so that's the first thing. You can see that there are these patterns here of becoming very bright and very dark. The other thing, of course, that's happening in the background that makes it a little bit confusing, but we're gonna appreciate it, is that the cells are also growing and dividing. And so the way this works is at the beginning of the movie, in the very center of the screen, there's just one or two cells. And then every time they grow and divide, they make two cells, make four cells, make eight cells, make 16 cells, make 32 cells, make 64 cells, right, like exponential growth of the cells. As the cells grow and divide, they push their daughter cells out and about and grow into this bigger two-dimensional colony of cells. So two things are happening here. Again, growth of the cells in a sheet from a seed cell, and then inside each cell is this synthetic genetic clock that's causing the cells to blink. This so-called repressilator. You just run this movie backwards and forwards, right? So if you look right in the middle, there's a cell that's quite bright, and now it goes dark. And if we go back in time, it becomes bright again, and then it's going dark. And you can see it. Now we're gonna run it forward in time. The cell we were just looking at, and it just divided into two bright cells, right? So that's both these processes, like the cells becoming bright and dark, but the cells are also growing and dividing. You can see off to the bottom right, there's a cell that's very bright, just become two very bright cells, and now they went dark. And then just above it, four cells are becoming bright. And now some other cells are becoming bright. What's interesting is these cells are not all doing the same thing at the same time. They're all growing, but whether they're bright or dark doesn't seem to be well correlated. Should we care about this? I think the answer is yes. And this is that second comment we found in the abstract. What's interesting is if you wind the movie all the way back to the beginning, and there's just one cell here, and you can't see it because it's dark, well, everything's the same because there's only one cell. And then here's just barely see early on in the movie, maybe there's eight cells here. They're mostly all off. But as we get to 30 cells, 60 cells, 120 cells, suddenly we see diversity or heterogeneity in the physical state of the cell. Just pause right here. Maybe 10% of the cells are very bright and 80% are off and some are in between. How did we go from one cell that's by definition genetically identical to a hundred cells still probably genetically identical? It probably hasn't been a lot of evolution or mutation here yet, but the physical state of the cell is very diverse. Where's this noise coming from? Where's this stochasticity coming from? Now, remember from last time, cells are made of molecules and the molecules inside the cells are self-mixing. They're moving around to do the thermal energy and the Brownian motion, right? And so what if in one cell where the molecules are in relation to causing the clock to move around are different than in another cell just because of how they're jostling? Or what if when one cell, it looks like the cells divide in the middle, when that barrier goes down, it's called septum formation and cytokinesis, but just think of it like a cell is growing and dividing, a barrier comes down and cuts the big cell in half into two tinier cells. What if when that barrier goes in place some molecules were on one side of the barrier versus the other side? And so even though the daughter cells are genetically identical, the physical molecules comprising their cytoplasm are different. That's probably happening, right? So maybe Brownian motion of individual molecules is contributing to this observed variation in the state of this clock. Of course, the cool thing is you can make a clock at all inside a cell, right? E. coli normally are like living in your gut. They're not running this clock making blinking lights, right? And so in the year 2000, for the first time, somebody is building a purposeful clock inside bacteria. Let's not complain that it's not keeping track of time perfectly. It's just the first time you get a oscillation like this working. It's amazing. Okay, so again, the question to reflect upon is what does this have to do? Maybe it has to do with time diffusion, at the molecular scale, maybe it's something to do with why individually genetically identical cells soon appear to be physically different. Isn't that interesting that we can get physical differences even with genetic homogeneity? Let's go on. That was just a warmup, so wait for it. Let's go on to a paper from 12 years later. This paper is, what, 11 years old. A sensing, we're gonna run the same method and keep leveling up that method, it's awesome. So first thing we do, we read the title. Are there any words we can't understand? Let's try. A sensing array of radically coupled genetic biopixels. What? Okay, a sensing array, an array that can sense something. Radically coupled, what is that, skateboarding? I have no idea what that means in this context. Radical, dude, no way. I have no idea what this word means in this context. Radically coupled. Genetic, okay, DNA. Biopixels, I know what a pixel is, like a pixel on a display, on a television, on a computer screen, something like that. Biopixel, must be a pixel made out of biology. Cool, all right, then we're gonna go to the abstract. I still don't know what the word radically means though in this title, that's fine. Now we're gonna read the abstract and see if we can find a claim. Although there has been considerable, this is not a claim, it's just a statement. Although there's been considerable progress in the development of engineering, a substantial challenge is the construction of robust circuits in noisy environments. So this is kind of interesting, like noisy, spontaneously mixing, diffusing, randomness. Okay, good. Such an environment, a noisy environment, leads to considerable intercellular variability in circuit behavior. If you make a DNA circuit, just like we saw in the previous work, although all the individual cells have the same genetic program in them, the cells are not doing the same thing at the same time. Right, so considerable variability. This is looking like this might be a pretty cool paper. Considerable variability in circuit behavior, which can hinder functionality at the colony level, the collective level. When you have a bunch of cells, bunch of bacteria, you call it a colony. Here, oh, here we go. Here's the claim. Here, we engineer the synchronization of thousands of oscillating colony biopixels over centimeter length scales through the use of synergistic intercellular coupling involving quorum sensing. It just, isn't this a heroic language? It's like, wow, they did all this. Involving quorum sensing within a colony and gas phase redox signaling between colonies. Maybe that has something to do with radically coupled. We use this platform to construct liquid crystal display like macroscopic clock that can be used to sense arsenic, an environmental pollutant, like polluted water via modulation of the period of oscillation. Given all this, we have set the stage, I'm paraphrasing, set the stage for the construction of low cost genetic biosensors that are capable of detecting heavy metals and pathogens in the field. By in the field, they mean in the real world. It's like, why do we have problems figuring out whether our water supplies are polluted? Maybe this paper can help us answer that question and do some other things. But what do I think is the big claim here? For me, I'm gonna highlight this statement. Like here, we engineer the synchronization of thousands of biopixels over centimeter length scales by coupling some things. All right, anything else I like in this? Yeah, we can use this to sense arsenic by modulating how the display is oscillating. Okay, again, now we found a good claim, mostly understand the title, step three, hunt for the evidence. And again, just like before in this paper, you can access through the link at the bottom. The cool thing is gonna be the video. So let's go right to the video. This work's done by Arthur Prindle and colleagues working in Jeff Hastie's lab in San Diego, California. What do we have here? Look at this blanket. I've never, have you ever seen, I've never seen something like this before. Start this over, let's go back to the beginning. Zero minutes, 40 minutes. Some things are turning blue. Other things are turning blue. Some of the things that are turning blue are turning off. They look like a grid of blue pixels, I guess. And now mostly everything's turning blue on and off together. I'll just let it run. Blink, blink, blink, pretty cool. Let's see if we can figure out how this works. To do that, let's build on our knowledge of diffusion. What can we infer, if anything, about the diffusion of biomolecules in this array of biopixels? The one thing I'm noticing for now is that although it doesn't start off with each pixel doing the same thing, synchronized with the others, over time, something is causing the pixels to synchronize. Now it could be that there's electrical wires that are communicating voltages behind this pixel array, but I'll just tell you, that's not what's happening here. All of this is being done with biology and biomolecules. And so the fact that the pixels start out of phase and then become synchronized suggests that there's a molecule diffusing across this entire array of pixels, sharing information with all the pixels about the state of other pixels, such that that signal is then being used to entrain or synchronize this blinking pattern among the individual pixels. So I think it's gotta be something like that, right? Like, how else would these things be blinking together? And if we knew what the length scale was, right, they mentioned centimeters, I think, then, and we know what the time scale is, we can see that clock running in the bottom left, then we can infer something about the diffusion coefficient, the apparent diffusion coefficient of this molecule, like how fast can it move around, has to be at least fast enough for it to be able to move around. Like how fast can it move around has to be at least fast enough to get across a centimeter or two within tens of minutes, it looks like. Let's take a closer look at one of the individual pixels. Maybe there's something else going on. So now we're zooming in and we're looking at just one individual pixel. This is really interesting. I see a flow from the top to the bottom. And what I see at the top is, it looks like bacteria E. coli, these rod-shaped bacteria growing and dividing. And as they're growing and dividing, like see how they're like mostly static at the top and then they get pushed down and maybe swept away at the bottom. They're growing and dividing and then they're blinking. They've got an oscillator running inside them and they're turning blue and black and blue and black. Unlike the movie we saw before with the paper from Mike Elowitz's lab in the year 2000, where individual cells very quickly were not in the same position in the clock, in this image, it looks like all the cells in this biopixel are all on at the same time or all off. At the same time, they're synchronized. It's a synchronized clock somehow. So something's gotta be doing that synchronization. What if that's another diffusing molecule? Something that is letting each cell in this image, in this movie, communicate with the other cells and say, oh, hey, it's 12 o'clock where I am. Hope it's 12 o'clock where you are. Oh yeah, it's 12 o'clock where I am. Hope it's 12 o'clock where you are. And like that's happening in parallel across all these cells. Now it's one o'clock, now it's two o'clock. Yeah, it sounds good to me. Let's stay in step with each other. Let's stay in time together. We've got synchronized clocks. Each of these cells is somehow communicating to each other. So we can infer there might be an existence of a second diffusing molecule in this system that's outside of the cells in this case. So far, all the molecules that we're thinking about to control the synchronization are outside the cell. And we know what the timescale is. And do we know what the length scale is? Well, if E. coli is about a micron, we could just, as a rod, how many E. coli lengths across the top? Maybe a hundred, right? So maybe it's a hundred microns or maybe a little bit less than that. So a hundred microns, what's that, 0.1 millimeters? Yeah. So, you know, 10th of a millimeter and 10s of minutes, whatever the thing is that's coordinating the behavior of the cell level clock is running on that timescale and length scale. So we could take a guess at what its diffusion coefficient is and if we could guess what its diffusion coefficient is, we could probably guess what its radius is. Remember, the diffusion coefficient is sensitive to the size of the molecule. Yeah. So you can learn a lot just by looking and then using your understanding of molecular diffusion to get a sense of what must be inside this engineered biological system, this radically coupled array of biopixels doing heavy metal detection in polluted waters or who knows. I mean, you can just like begin to figure out how it probably is working. And it's all coordinated, all powered in this case, probably by diffusion. Well, let's pull some other papers just to try and stitch this together. This is the biopixel array we started with. And if you zoom in on any given pixel, you can see that there are these little blocks or stations or crypts where individual bacterial cells are growing. And it, yeah, it looks like they say there's about 5,000 cells per biopixel. And so we probably had the length scales pretty good. And then inside each cell is a genetic program and each cell has the same genetic program. I'm gonna show it to you as a sort of cartoon version because we're really-