there are billions of molecules of identical DNA in there and each one's gonna get cut slightly differently. So you're gonna have lots of overlapping sequencing reads. But anyway, these are assembled then into what's called scaffolds where we fill in with ends. We basically say like, we're not sure what sequence is in between these two larger segments of DNA, but we believe that there is missing sequence there because sometimes regions get difficult to resolve. And we'll go into what that means on the next slide. Okay, so it can be challenging to sequence genomes with repeated sequences using this type of short read technology. When you're only getting sequencing reads that are 75 to 300 bases long, then you have a hard time figuring out whether like repeated sequences are real or not. So here's an example where you have a genome, let's say it's all mostly an orange and all of the orange is unique sequence, right? That sequence that's only appearing once in the genome, but you have this repeat region where there's a segment, maybe several hundred base pairs long, that's identical to another segment in the genome. And in between them is some unique sequence, but we don't necessarily know whether these reads here map to this repeated region or this repeated region, because you'll notice like this blue bar, for example, it's completely contained within the repeat. So it's totally possible that it is a read from this region of the genome. And so when you use an algorithm to try to figure out how to assemble the genome, it becomes really difficult to know is this, are these reads two different repeated regions within the genome or just reads covering one location? And these ones that are overlapping at the boundaries, maybe that's suggesting this boundary here. So the algorithms have a hard time, people will have a hard time figuring out how to deal with these repeated sequence, even though there is this extra DNA in the middle and there are some unique junctions here. When there's a lot of overlapping sequence, it still just becomes very difficult to know how to deal with that. And so some of that will end up as kind of trash at the end of an experiment where people will say, well, these extra reads, we didn't really know where to align them, we didn't know where to put them. So when you were going through the P set and you see like the human genome project had finished and yet we only had sequence of like 92% of the genome, some of it is because we just have regions that we didn't know how to kind of put into the context of the rest of the genome. Until recently, that has been figured out. So hopefully you'll get to, or you'll enjoy seeing that on the P set. Okay, our Illumina Next Generation Sequencing has several advantages. It's cheap, it's very accurate, it's really good at accurately conveying what base is on a molecule, those kind of clusters of identical DNA all being read at the same time means that it's pretty high fidelity and it can sequence fragmented DNA. So if you have DNA that's old, right, and already pretty broken, or you have a sample that hasn't been treated very well, maybe it was left in a hot car or you were trekking from your deep sea adventure, you had to take that DNA on a plane and get it home, things can happen that break down your DNA and Illumina is still pretty good at sequencing even fragmented DNA because it's gonna break the DNA into pieces anyway at the beginning of the library prep. Some of the disadvantages of Illumina sequencing is that it's hard to sequence repetitive regions and it can't resolve structural variants. So that becomes really difficult to do with this. Now, the next type of sequencing that we're gonna talk about is single molecule real-time sequencing. This is different. So here you're taking sequence that you want to know the sequence of and you ligate on these adapters. So you make a full DNA circle. And then at the bottom of a nano well, a very small sample size, a very small little like well in a chip, you have a single polymerase fused to the bottom. And that polymerase will incorporate or try to make a copy of this single strand of DNA. And as it does, it will incorporate fluorescent nucleotides. Then you can use a basically imaging tool at the bottom of this micro well, you can shine a laser and then collect the light that's re-emitted from the fluorescent nucleotides. And as they're getting incorporated into the DNA, they will be the closest to the detector and therefore give the brightest fluorescent signal. And so you can use that to figure out what the sequence of DNA is of this molecule as it's being synthesized. So this is essentially another sequencing by synthesis method. Here's what something looks like where you have fluorescence intensity over time and you can see each base has a different signature. And so you would know that it's an A getting incorporated based on how intense the fluorescence signal is that you're reading at your detector over time. So that's true for each individual base and allows you to read DNA. One thing I will say is that this method is pretty low fidelity. So it's sometimes confusing to know whether it was an A or a T that got incorporated, a G or a C, they're just, it's kind of low fidelity, especially as you get fluorophores or some of these nucleotides that kind of drift down towards the detector, you can get errors in the sequencing read. And so what people usually do is run this circular DNA molecule through the polymerase over and over and over and over and over again, and then look for kind of the consensus sequence. If you read the same molecule many, many times, then you can kind of average out any error that's occurring. So that's helpful. Here's the actual size of one of these smart cells. So what's in there? Well, you have, right, this little micro well with the polymerase at the bottom, and then there are, yeah. So, and then it's placed into this chip. It's just kind of stepping through different magnifications here so you can see kind of what's happening inside of these smart cells. So it's an exciting method of being able to take long read measurements, where you can take a long molecule of DNA and sequence the whole thing instead of having to break it into those small pieces like you do for Illumina sequencing, this PacBio, this SMRT sequencing can handle long molecules. And what that's good for is actually looking for repeated sequence. So now you can actually know how many times does a repeated sequence occur in the genome? Are there locations where a region of the genome is repeated or inverted? And sometimes those repeats or inversions can influence how strongly a gene is expressed. So they're really important. And this type of sequencing read has finally allowed us to be able to look at these types of kind of complex genomic regions. Okay, so it has these advantages of being able to sequence repetitive regions and resolve structural rearrangements, but it's not compatible with fragmented DNA. Again, the advantage here is being able to sequence a long segment. If you have a really short piece of DNA would like zip through the polymerase really fast, but not be a super good use of the technology. I mean, it does have a little bit of coverage bias. So it's not perfect at all reading all bases. And then it is low accuracy. Although again, we kind of get over that low accuracy problem by sequencing the same molecule many times in a row. All right, our last technology that we're gonna talk about is nanopore sequencing. This is not sequencing by synthesis, is a little bit different. You basically have a sensor chip with an array of nanopores, little holes on them. And you then measure the current as it passes through these nanopores. What does that mean? Okay, so on this chip, there's like I said, this array of tiny holes, these nanopores, they're embedded in a membrane that's connected to a chip. You can kind of see all of that here that measures current. And the current is disrupted by the passage of DNA bases through the pore. And so here's just an animation of this kind of thing occurring. In this case, it's sort of modeling the DNA bases of different kinds as these orange balls of different sizes. And you can see the current passing through on the left. So the current's passing through at a high level until that first base or that first ball occurs and it dips. The second ball, which blocks more of the current, gives the bigger drop. And when it's removed, then it returns up to this baseline. And so each nucleotide interferes with the passage of ions through this pore differently and gives a unique signature. So you can sequence the DNA as it goes through. So something like that looks like this, where here's the DNA passing through the nanopore. And I apologize, that's super fast, but it's all passing through slowly and you get this signature of different currents that correspond to the different bases passing through and therefore the sequence of the DNA. Nanopore has all these great how it works videos. I totally recommend checking them out and seeing for yourself, what you think of these different technologies. And they do explain it in greater depth. So you can, please feel free to check those out. Okay, so nanowire products are really cool. They're actually quite inexpensive, right? A minion is about a thousand dollars. So it's like a handheld version of a sequencer and it includes two flow cells and a kit to help you kind of prep DNA. So for, you know, around a thousand dollars, you can sequence potentially two organisms' genomes, although they'd have to be relatively small organisms. And we'll talk about that in a second. But yeah, the prices here are much, they're pretty affordable relative to the cost of a lot of laboratory equipment. So it's been really exciting to have nanopore on the scene because it's made it easier to sequence all kinds of DNA samples. Each product, again, has a different sequencing capacity. So the flow cell sizes, the number of nanopores on each one are different. And so the more nanopores you have, the more kind of chips you put in any one machine, the bigger the genome you can sequence. And so here's people, actually wheat has a genome that's even bigger than humans. Instead of being about 3.2 billion bases, wheat is around 16. So the bread that you eat actually has more DNA in it than you. But I think it's great to have this diversity of options available at different price points to be able to sequence DNA for all kinds of needs. Okay, this is something that I'm super excited about. I haven't seen it come out yet. We did talk about it last year and it's still not out. So I'm not sure exactly when it will happen. But Nanopore Tech, Oxford Nanopore, the company that makes these types of sequencing devices has been talking about Smidge Ion. So Minion is the version of the sequencer that you can plug into your USB port on a computer. Smidge Ion is one that you can plug into your cell phone and get some sequencing to occur. And I just think it would be so fun to be able to have a little device that you plug into your phone and that you can take sequence of maybe in field or on the fly. So here are some of the advantages and disadvantages of Nanopore. It can sequence repetitive regions. It also does really long reads like the PacBio system that I showed you before. It's pretty cheap. It can resolve those structural rearrangements and it's portable. But it does have a lower accuracy than the Illumina system. And it doesn't have the advantage that PacBio does of being able to sequence multiple molecules over and over and over again. And so you are subject to potentially more mistakes in your sequencing. But if you have many copies of the same piece of DNA and they're all going through different pores, any one pore may have a problem getting a really accurate sequence read. But when you, again, kind of combine them all together, you should be able to get something that's pretty high fidelity. Okay, so at the end of all of this, you have technologies you can choose from, you have approaches you can choose from for being able to sequence the DNA of your mysterious sea creature. And I want you to think like, what can you learn? What secrets does your sea creature's genome contain? Maybe there are new pigment proteins. Maybe there's new medicinal compounds or enzymes that make new medicinal compounds encoded in the DNA. Maybe there's instructions for limb regeneration, losing a whole tentacle. That's not something that organisms do lightly. Usually they have a strategy to regrow that lost limb. Maybe there's new bioluminescent proteins or instructions for how to withstand high pressures. Maybe there's something else, but I think only once we sequence, will we really know a little bit more about what the potential of this organism might be. Okay, so as you were listening today, I'd like you to kind of reflect back on what would you like to sequence if you had the capacity to sequence something? What are the potential benefits of sequencing an organism's genome? What would you wish for in the next generation of sequencing technologies? I told you a little bit about the advantages and disadvantages of the ones that we already have, but are there any other things that you might wish for a DNA sequencing technology to be capable of? And then if Smidgeion became available tomorrow, would you buy one? What would you do with it? I think that's fun to think about. All right.