We're going to talk about navigating change in the context of emerging technologies underlying bioengineering, and along the way we'll have this interesting topic, abiotic data storage. So let's get right into it. Pixar is a world-famous animation studio. They're such a success, they must have always been a success, right? Not so fast. How did Pixar navigate the change that was relevant to them when they were just beginning? What's really interesting is you can read about this story, and I'm just pulling two paragraphs from a very neat article published 10 years ago with one of the people who helped get Pixar going, Alvy Ray Smith. And so let's just read this bit of text to see what we can learn. When we moved to California, we got close to making a computer-animated movie again in the mid-1980s, 1985. It's the second time they're trying to do something. It's going to be an interesting movie about a monkey with godlike powers. Something's missing from anyway. We had somebody who would pay for it, and we had a story, and the marketing looked good, and we're going to do a screen test, and we had an animator who sketched out the studies, the monkey and a glass dragon, and okay. Second paragraph. But when it came time to harden the deal and run the numbers for the contracts, meaning who's going to do what for what money, I discovered to my dismay that the computers were still too slow. The projected production cost was too high and the computation time way too long. What's he talking about? Well, they have a computer-animated movie, and so they have the idea for what the movie should be, but actually making the movie itself is going to use computers to render the images. Remember, this is 1985, plus or minus, or thereabouts, and so the computers weren't powerful enough. It was the second time they had this experience. Apparently, they tried this earlier, and they couldn't do it, and they tried it again in the mid-1980s, and we had to back out of the deal. It was too expensive. Computers were too slow. This time, they write, we knew enough to correctly apply Moore's law. We had to wait another five years to start making the first movie, and sure enough, five years later, Disney approached us to make Toy Story. What's interesting here is Pixar didn't start out as a huge success. In fact, it looks like they tried to make a movie, they failed, and then they were about to try again, but they learned from their first failure, we better check how slow computers are, how fast computers are, how much they cost, and they're like, oh, we can't do it again. Almost made a second mistake, but at least now you have two data points. We can't do it, but anybody with two points knows that you can make a line. If you can make a line, then maybe you can extrapolate or project that line into the future. It's so interesting, and I really love this example because what you see today existing as the big successes, it didn't start that way. Oftentimes, in the starting of things, you have to learn and fail and learn and then figure out what's possible and when things are possible. Well, this is for computing and movies. What's this got to do with bioengineering? Let's use this as an example to dig a little deeper and extract the mechanisms by which we might figure out how to understand what's going on and extrapolate into the future and decide what type of bionaut or bioengineer we want to be. To stick with the Pixar example, how much cheaper did using computers to render animations get between 1985 and 1990? Because that's where this little anecdote ends. What information would we need to answer this question? The most important thing is framing the question because once you frame the question, you're like, how do I figure this out? You can just go ask anybody you know, what's happening with computers? Once you start asking questions like that, you'll start to get answers like, well, what is happening with computers? In the case of computers, one of the most famous trends that's relevant and is cited in this example is shown here, so-called Moore's law after one of the founders of Intel, Gordon Moore. And so this is a plot over time. It's a line. It looks like starting around 1970 and going to 2011. So that 40-year period, that's the x-axis. And then the y-axis is transistor count. And it's basically how many transistors are on a computer chip. And the points on this line are different types of computers or computer cores or microprocessors. And if you look carefully at the y-axis, you see that it's a logarithmic y-axis. It's going up by a factor of 10, a factor of 10, a factor of 10. It's an exponential axis. So a straight line with a logarithmic y-axis means exponential growth. Computers are doubling in power about every two years as measured by the number of transistors on a computer chip. This is what the Pixar founders were learning about when they say Moore's law. And so in 1985, not fast enough, but if we wait two and a half years, the computers might be twice as good after two years, twice as four times as good, almost eight times as good, maybe six times as good. It's like almost 10 times as good, right? In five years, like three doublings is two times, two times two is eight, eight times more powerful. So every three to four years, your computer's getting 10 times more powerful. That's the slope of this. Now they had learned from their two experiences that computers were following the increase in computing power is following this trend. So like around this time, they thought we'd be able to afford making this computer animated movie. Sergeant. Yes, sir. Establish a recon post downstairs. So by the time we get to this in the theaters, right, it looks like a big success, but the big success is derived from decisions that were being made back in 1980, 1985. For Toy Story to arrive in theaters in 1995, the Pixar team had to be making smart decisions in the 1980s. Begs the question, what smart decisions should we, should you, as you know, like there's going to be a lot of bioengineers. They're just going to be following instructions, but who's going to be the bionaut? Who's going to be the bold bioengineering leader? And if you want to be in that second category, it's like, what smart decisions should you be making when, including today, about the right time for doing different types of bioengineering projects and possibilities? So that's what this is about. That's a warmup. I like thinking about this through the perspective of surfing. If you've never seen surfing, here's what it looks like. This is next to San Francisco in California. When you see somebody surfing, the drama of surfing is what captures your attention. But for today's class, I really want you to think about where are these waves coming from and what's making the shape of the wave and how they're changing over time. There's some engine somewhere far away, a storm that's causing a trend, this swell, and then the wind and the topology of the ocean bottom and the tide are other physical factors that shape the wave. But the key thing is to understand that there's some engine somewhere, some trend that's creating this pulsing set of waves. It's like there's some trend that's creating changes in computing power. There's some trend that's going to be changing the capacities of bioengineering power, which we'll get to in a minute, and we've been talking about earlier this week already. But if you can see these trends, then you can see that they're generating these pulses, these waves. You can understand where the wave's going to be. Then you can decide where you want to be with respect to where the wave's going to be, and then you can surf the trends. It allows you, if you understand what's going on, to say, do I want to position myself there and when do I want to position? Maybe you do, maybe you don't. The most important thing with surfing is not getting out there surfing per se. It's like understanding where the wave's going to be and then reading what's going on and then making a decision about where to position yourself. That's the gist of it from just a totally different perspective. Turning this back to bioengineering, title of the slide, what are the emerging trends beyond computing that are or will likely impact the practice or impacts of bioengineering, if any? Here's something that helps us understand changes with respect to the tools we've been looking at this week. We're going to talk about sequencing of DNA and synthesis of DNA and trends related to that. Of course, you want to understand how these tools work, but if you want to be a bionaut, you have to understand how these tools are turning into trends, meaning change in DNA sequencing and DNA writing capacities over time. To get to that, we need to find clues. The best way to find clues is just go look for clues. I know that sounds really trivial and maybe esoteric, but I'm just going to give you some examples. As we go through these examples, I'm going to pose some questions so that you can practice and gain confidence with like, how do I find what the trends are? Here is a totally esoteric document from 1996, Cellular Computing, Summer Study. At the top, you can see this symbol on the top right, DARPA. You should ask, what is DARPA? You can find a Wikipedia article. I'd encourage you to read it. DARPA is a U.S. federal agency whose mission is to create and prevent surprise, technical surprise. It was started by the United States Congress in response to the Soviet Union launching Sputnik. That was so alarming, having another nation state surprise us with this object orbiting the earth and sending out little radio signals. It's like, we don't want that to ever happen again. How do we avoid that? We must create our own purpose, mission-driven organization to make sure we're never surprised by another country's technology. The only way to do that is to make sure we have the most innovative technologies. That's one way of describing what DARPA is about. Maybe you could learn more. Maybe one or more of you will be DARPA program managers. I bet and expect one or more of you might be the DARPA director in the future. Wouldn't that be interesting? Anyway, let's go back to the study. You can track down the study and download the whole thing for free from the MIT library. There's this incredible plot. It's such a simple bar graph in the middle of the study. It says sequence genomes. It's got three bars on the graph. Then it's got 95, 96, 97. Those are the years 1995, 1996, and 1997. The y-axis is number of microorganisms. This is a representation of how many genomes have been sequenced for microorganisms on the entirety of the earth in the history of human civilization. The answer in the year 1995 is zero. Then in the year 1996, the answer is two. That's when they had their study. I guess they must have been guessing about how many would be sequenced the next year. They're saying, this could be 10. It's like, we have zero genome sequenced in 1999, even though Sanger sequencing, as we learned, was invented in the 70s. It wasn't applied to bacterial genomes yet. It had only been applied to some virus genomes. Zero, and then it goes to two, and then it goes to 10. I love how they take three data points and make this unbelievable slide title. Biochemical knowledge is undergoing explosive growth. That's a bold statement. You know what? They weren't wrong. They're right on target. If you keep reading in this document, there's other things. It's like, you know, DNA has very dense molecular memory. You could store a hundred thousand bits per cell within this spatial feature. One of the places you can find trends and learn about the future is to find new organizations whose mission is to understand trends and invent the future, DARPA being one of them. Look right here again. 25 years ago, people are learning about the trend in sequencing. It's undergoing explosive improvement in capacity. Now we can quantify this in more detail. This is a work done by Rob Carlson. What Rob is doing is, time again, on the x-axis, we're familiar with this from Moore's law. In fact, Moore's law is re-plotted on here on the blue line. And so we see transistors per chip on the y-axis, but we also see the red and yellow line. And these have different y-axes. These are the number of bases of DNA, or nucleotides, that a person could read or sequence in a day. So that's the red line. How many nucleotides could one human being sequence in a day, given the technologies of that time? So in 1985, it's looking like it's somewhere between 10,000 and 100,000. One times 10 to the fourth, one times 10 to the fifth, right here. So call it 20,000 a day. But you fast forward to 2005 and it's gone up and it's somewhere between 1 million and 10 million. And if we jump ahead, now it's somewhere between 10 billion and 100 billion. Well, so that's an exponential increase in DNA reading capacity. And it's trending actually and accelerating, if you will, faster than Moore's law. So in other words, DNA sequencing over your entire lifetime, more or less, has gotten more powerful, faster than computers have been getting better. And then the yellow trend is less mature, but it's writing DNA, DNA synthesis. So in 1990, a person maybe could synthesize 100 nucleotides in a day. And by 2005, you could synthesize a million nucleotides in a day, depending if you had access to the latest tools. Wow. So we saw what happened with computing, just one example, computing getting better. And then suddenly we've got computer animated movies, but now underneath bioengineering, if DNA is central to all of 21st century bioengineering and everything it can do, the two tools that are right upon DNA, touching DNA, DNA reading and DNA writing, they're moving out like gangbusters and following trends as profoundly changing as computers were. Well, what's this going to mean? Let's use some examples. Surprise. And I don't really mean surprise, because if you can really start to get into these trends, none of this should be surprising. You're anticipating this as we're learning to surf along these trends of DNA read, write about 10 years ago, 11 years ago, some colleagues wrote a book and then they use DNA synthesis to encode their book in DNA. So they took an entire book, you know, which is a analog object, but of course you can represent the book as a digital file that you might download to read on a tablet reader. But if you have as a digital file, zeros and ones, if you could map the zeros and ones to ACs, TGs, we'll talk about that later. Then you could synthesize DNA, storing the information of zeros and ones. And so instead of having a physical copy of your book or a digital file on your tablet or laptop, you could have a test tube and inside the test tube is synthesized DNA. It's not alive. And instead of it being an open reading frame for a protein or anything to do with biology, it's just data. So that was done for the first time over 10 years ago. And as soon as you start to think about data storage, like archival data storage, how big a market is that? It turns out way big. And so then you can ask the question like, what if the people who want to store data have a much bigger demand for DNA synthesis than the people who want to do bioengineering? Because just more data to store than DNA to tinker with for solving a disease or something. Once you start to see something, you just keep seeing, it's like, it was like, I just saw that car. And now suddenly you see 10 other instances of the same model car. Once you start, people are putting information in the DNA. You just find more and more examples. So that video from the musical group, OK Go, suddenly there's this example coming from Microsoft and the University of Washington up in Seattle. And they're taking a high definition music video from the band OK Go. And also the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in more than 100 languages, and the top 100 books from Project Gutenberg, and the Crop Trust Global Seed Database. And they're putting all of that data into synthesized DNA that can sit in a test tube somewhere. 200 megabytes of data just got pushed into DNA synthesis. And now you've got a test tube with microscopically small DNA molecules encoding the music video for the band, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. What? Is it surprising? Once you're seeing the world in this way, it's like, oh no, I expect more of this might be happening. People are going to put more and more data in the DNA. And now you just keep looking. In the year 2017, the Library of Congress, the US Library of Congress, is holding a workshop. What do the librarians think about DNA data storage? Well, let's have a meeting about designing storage architectures for digital collections. This happened in the fall in Washington, D.C. at the Library of Congress. And we can track this down and see what the agenda is. And it's like, OK, Seagate government solutions. That sounds very good, but conventional. Tape manufacturer consolidation. That's what I think about. I think about tape reels and storing data on tape. But if we keep looking at the agenda for this meeting, the next day on September 19th, we see alternative media and the future. And there's all these speakers and then alternative media in the future. And here we go. Karen Strauss, who was the researcher on the preceding slide from the University of Washington and Microsoft Research, DNA Research, and Hwajin Park, DNA Storage Update. Whoa. So between the year 2012 and 2017, in 2012, the first book goes into DNA, you could say almost as a stunt, but like a research project. Within five years, the Library of Congress is like, we should be talking about putting the Library of Congress in the DNA. Is that the future? Right. And we're finding this just by scratching the surface and like, who is thinking about what these trends are and when the right time to do some bioengineering might be. Now, I want to switch gears for a moment. We'll come back and talk about surfing in a couple of different ways. But I want to dig into why DNA might be the ultimate digital data storage format and how to put data into DNA. And the reason is subtle, but in my opinion, truly profound. Yes, DNA is tiny. So you've got a carbon ring and then you could put two bases on the DNA. And so for five carbons, you could store two bits of data. We'll get to that. So it's super high density, like a thousand times greater than most things. DNA, if you keep it in a dry place and don't change the temperature or irradiate it, it's pretty stable.