Um, you know, but I, I see things like, um, what was it, 496 serine, I'm going to go back and double check. What was that about? Yeah. Like mutated residue, serine 496. So just remember that mutated residue, serine 496. So what this is depicting is just looking at the physical structure that they're measuring on their fancy microscope and where the mutants are on the structure of the spike protein, right? So I see the number 496 and I see the letter S and you know, that's what the physical structure looks like and where that mutant is, it's somewhere, I guess it's out on the tip of the spike protein where it's going to be interacting with the receptor. And so, you know, that's, that's that, you know, that's the region that the antibody might bind to. So, but what is, what is 496S mean? And more specifically, if we go back and look at this, it's like, it's not 496S it's a G496S. So whoa, where did all this jargon come from? How are we going to decode it? So let's see if we can figure this out. I'm going to use the Gettysburg address to quickly explain what the heck things like G496S mean. So there's Abraham Lincoln with his top hat. What an amazing photo. And if you know the Gettysburg address, you know, it starts with the four score and seven years ago. So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to put a number, we're just going to number the letters in order. So the first letter's an F, and so that's a one. The second letter's an O, that's at position two. The third letter's a U, that's at position three, and so on. And so this set of words has 25 different letters, and we can say, you know, there's an A at position 23, and so on. Okay, good. Now I'm going to propose some changes, or mutants, right, but just changes. So for example, the letter C that is historically at position six, let's change that to a P. Or the letter Y that's historically at position 18, we're going to change that to a B. And the letter A that's at position 20, you know, right here, we're going to change that to an E. So if we make all these changes, we'll get a different set of words. Let's see, what would those be? Let's make these changes. Instead of four score and seven years ago, we make these three changes, and we get, aha, four spore and seven beers ago. So when we see C6P, we're taking the original letter C at position six, and replacing it with the letter P, and so on. And that's what's happening in the spike protein, but with a different alphabet that we're going to have to introduce on the next slide. But quickly now, you can hopefully see this type of jargon and how it works. It's a coding system for taking one letter and turning it into a different letter at a particular position. So what's the language? What's the coding table? G496S. What does that mean? It's not going to be the letters of the English alphabet. These letters refer to the single letter abbreviation of the amino acids, the 20 amino acids that make up proteins. From alanine, which is abbreviated with the single letter A, or the three letter ala, you know, arginine, asparagine, aspartic acid, cysteine, glutamine, all the way down to tyrosine, which is abbreviated with the single letter Y. That's awkward. Well, that's because T was already used, you know, just above for threonine. Anyway, these 20 letters refer to the 20 different amino acids that comprise proteins. So G496 is, well, we had a G, which was a glycine, and we're going to turn it into an S, which is a serine. And we're going to do that at position 496 in the spike protein. Just to restate that and write it out, at position 496 in the polypeptide chain of the spike protein, we're going to replace the original G, or glycine, with an S, or serine. And so I was able to find the spike protein sequence online at the website at the bottom. And here are the single letter abbreviations for all the amino acids making up the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, starting with an M and ending with a T. And if we find the G, 496 letters into this thing, G496S means we're replacing that G with an S, and that's it. So this is the G496S mutation, or variant, found in the mutated spike protein that's taken over the pandemic. Now, to be careful, these changes in the protein sequence are not mutations per se, they're the result of an underlying mutation in the nucleic acid sequence. So what do we mean by that? RNA or DNA encodes triplets that are then decoded by the ribosome and the tRNA to make proteins. And there's a lookup table, the famous genetic code, that tells you how to do the decoding. So each triplet in RNA, in this case, will result in one of the 20 amino acids or a start or stop sequence. And so glycine, for example, or G, is encoded by any of these four triplet codons would get you a glycine amino acid, GGU, GGC, GGA, GGG. And if we have a mutation that's resulting in a serine, we can see that there are four options for serine over here, UCU and so on, but also two more options for serine over here, AGU and AGC. So if I had a random error in an RNA copying process that caused a glycine on a protein to become a serine, I'm probably, well, I've got to be moving from one of these four, but to jump all the way over here to one of these four serines, I'd have to change more than one letter. Whereas, if I just want to pop up here, like GGU, that's a glycine. If I just change the G to an A on the RNA, I'll get AGU. So just a G to A substitution will move me up this codon table in a mutation, if you will, from a glycine encoding codon to a serine encoding codon. So probably what's happening during the evolution of this particular variant in SARS is, in the protein, it's originally encoded by either GGU or GGC, and it's most likely becoming either AGU or AGC. So this funny notation is at the protein level, the mutations themselves are at the nucleic acid level, and you've got to decode it through the codon table here. So that's a lot. I'm going to pause there. Reflective questions. What are mutations? Random changes that you remember. Why do they happen? Any physical copying process is likely to be imperfect in ways that are random. Is it possible to stop this from occurring? Not absolutely. You can do a lot of correction, but that's going to require energy. And so depending on how much energy you have, why do mutations matter? Are mutations always bad? If we can't stop mutations from happening, can we stop them from mattering? Sure, if you stop replication by squelching a pandemic, you won't get the mutations, it just won't be enough replication. But there might be other ways to stop mutations from matter. But hidden within this question is a whole bunch of policy topics you can think about, like how urgent is it to get people vaccinated? Could you invent a game or experience if you were talking with somebody who had no idea what mutations were? What experience could you invent for them that might help them develop empathy for this puzzle of why do mutations occur in the first place? How's that related to physical copying? One of my favorite ways of exploring this, for example, in a classroom is to get 10 people in a line and give the first person a written phrase to whisper to the next person and cheer everybody on to as quickly as possible, get that phrase whispered all the way down the line of people. And the best thing to do is to have another line of people and compete to see who get there first without making any mistakes in what the saying or phrase is. But I'm sure you can come up with other ways of helping people think about where do mutations come from.