This week, we're going to talk about nutrition and food crop biotechnology. I want to start by posing a question to you. What innovations do you think have saved the most human lives? Do you think it's something like seatbelts or chemotherapeutic drugs that help treat cancer? What invention have humans come up with that have saved the most lives? Take a second to think about it. Why is that the invention that you've chosen? How many lives do you think it saved? Now keep that in the back of your head because the answer to this question might surprise you. It's actually synthetic fertilizers. These synthetic fertilizers actually don't help people directly at all. They're applied to plants and they help plants become more productive. They help plants produce more food for people. The invention of synthetic fertilizers helped increase the global food production so significantly that it's estimated that about 2.7 billion people who might otherwise have starved were able to thrive because of synthetic fertilizers. I think that's kind of an astounding number and really exciting to see something related to food and crop health at the top of this list. Right after synthetic fertilizers are blood groups. So you might know what blood type you are. Maybe you're A positive. Maybe you're B negative or O negative. Regardless of what blood type you are, the identification of what blood type you are helps doctors figure out what type of blood you can receive if you need a blood transfusion and who might be good matches for things like organs should you need a transplant. So before we understood blood groups, things like blood transfusions were much less likely to succeed. And so the identification of blood groups also has saved over a billion human lives. Now, just after blood groups is smallpox vaccine. And then right after that is actually wheat, a special type of wheat, which we will also talk about in this lecture, kind of went hand in hand with synthetic fertilizers in increasing the amount of food that we produce and therefore saving lots of human lives by making sure that people had enough nutrition. Now, a nutritionally balanced diet is important for a healthy life. You need enough protein, vitamins, fats, minerals, and carbohydrates in order for your body to have fuel and all of the building blocks it needs to keep itself running day to day. If you consume too much of one thing and not enough of another, you can put your metabolism and put your body sort of out of whack and that can lead to health problems. So it's important to make sure that your diet is composed of enough of the things that you need in order for your body to be working correctly. Now, one really important part of your body's functioning correctly is protein. The protein that we eat is actually digested into amino acids and then remade into new proteins. What do I mean by that? Well, if you were to eat beef or chicken or some other source of protein, maybe soybeans, your digestive system will actually take the proteins that are found in cow muscle or soybean seeds and it will break it down into its individual parts, into amino acids. And then the cells in your body will actually recycle those amino acids into making new protein. And if you don't have enough amino acids, then you can't make all the proteins that your cells need in order to function correctly. Maybe you don't have enough amino acids to make polymerases, to drive the expression of genes in your genome. Maybe you don't make enough of ribosomes to translate RNAs into new proteins, right? It's really important to have all of these building blocks in sufficient quantity for your cells to function correctly. Now, kind of amazingly, your body can actually synthesize 11 of the 20 amino acids that are the building blocks of proteins. That means that they can actually make the molecules from scratch inside of your cells. And that's pretty cool. That means that you actually don't need to consume a lot of protein that has alanines in it, for example, because your body is capable of making them. But there are essential amino acids, and these cannot be synthesized within the body. So you actually have to eat enough protein that has these amino acids within them in order to have a sufficient source of these amino acids to get incorporated into new proteins. So here are the eight or nine, excuse me, that are essential amino acids. And these three at the bottom, valine, leucine, and isoleucine, these are proteins that are really essential for you to consume in high quantity. They account for 30 to 40% of the essential amino acids that you need to consume. So when we look for protein sources, we want to look for things that are high in valine, leucine, and isoleucine. So although all amino acids are required for body growth, these essential amino acids are really important to get in your diet because you can't make them and you need to have them. So each food that you eat has a unique profile of amino acids, right? Rice is obviously like a different organism than cow. It's also different from the fish. And each of these organisms have their own kind of proteins that they require to function. And so they will have like different compositions. Compositions. So you need to consume the right types of dietary proteins in order for you to get enough of the proteins you need. What do I mean by that? Okay, well, often people eat rice and beans together. And although that is nice because they taste good together, that's also pretty practical. Rice is a pretty complete protein. It has the essential, almost all of the essential amino acids that you need, but it's a little bit low in lysine. It's pretty high in methionine, which is helpful, but it doesn't have quite enough lysine to be sufficient for being the only type of food that you consume. You would eventually need to eat something else to get enough lysine. Now, beans, on the other hand, are high in lysine, but low in methionine. So the two complement each other really nicely because if you eat both of them together, then you get enough of the essential amino acids that you need to function well. Quinoa, on the other hand, is what's called a complete protein. So it has all of the amino acids or essential amino acids that you need to consume in your diet at sufficiently high quantities that you can consume just quinoa, for example, and get all of the protein that you need in order to function. Animal products are similarly complete proteins and are a good source of all of these things. Now, even in animals, some of these amino acids are consumed. Now, we're so a big building block, a major part of an amino acid is actually nitrogen. And so nitrogen is in your food actually comes from the air. So nitrogen is fixed from a gaseous form into ammonia, which plants can then uptake and incorporate into their seeds. So for rice, that would be into the grain or into other parts of the plant in order for the plant to be able to make protein. And that conversion of atmospheric nitrogen into a form that the plant can use to build proteins is actually converted by bacteria. These bacteria, we will talk about a lot, but it's kind of interesting that they're the ones pulling nitrogen out of the atmosphere and turning it into a form that then plants use to make proteins that then animals eat. And then we eventually consume either in the form directly of animal meat or other animal products. So all of the nitrogen that's in your food is actually coming from the air, or it was at one point. Now, plants form unique relationships with bacteria in order to get this nitrogen. Some plants form symbiotic root nodules. So they actually make little homes for bacteria to live within their roots. The bacteria, when they live within these root nodules, will fix nitrogen. They'll actually take in nitrogen gas, and then they will deliver ammonia or a form of nitrogen that the plants can use to the plant cells. And in return, they'll get sugar from the plant. Remember, the plant is fixing carbon dioxide into sugars that can then be consumed by other organisms. So there's this really nice symbiotic relationship between plants and bacteria where the bacteria giving the plants nitrogen and the plants are giving the bacteria sugar. But not all plants form these root nodules. Some of them just associate with bacteria. So there will be bacteria living on the surface of the root system, and those bacteria sometimes fix nitrogen mostly for themselves, but they will fix excess occasionally, and the plant will benefit from having those bacteria nearby because they'll be able to get nitrogen from them. They're also free-living nitrogen bacteria, which are present more in bulk soil. There's some of them flying kind of around in air. They ride air currents, and they are fixing nitrogen, again, primarily for themselves, but other organisms can take advantage of the fixed nitrogen that the bacteria are producing. When, for example, the bacteria dies, other organisms can take advantage of the nitrogen that they've fixed. Now, here is what these root nodules look like. I think they're pretty amazing. All of these things that look like little beans, they're actually stuffed full of bacteria that are fixing nitrogen for the plant. The way these nodules form, it's actually quite interesting. It's a very intricate relationship between the plant and the bacteria where there are these tiny root hair structures on the surface of these roots. They're really small, and so they're difficult to see in the pictures that we have here. A bacteria will release some chemical signals that the root then recognizes, and the root will send back chemical signals to the bacteria. That will cause an infection thread to form, basically a little channel in which a bacteria can enter into the plant. Once they're inside of a deeper layer of the plant root, they'll begin to replicate and then differentiate into what's called a bacteroid. This is a version of the bacteria that is optimal for fixing nitrogen and receiving carbon directly from the plant. I'll show you, I think, on the next slide what this looks like. These bacteroids are sometimes elongated versions of the bacteria. They tend to lose their own cell wall and permeate their cell membrane. They become one with the plant cell, but they are distinct enough that they are still capable of fixing nitrogen and of receiving sugars from the plant. They enter a new cellular state. They don't look as much like bacteria as they did before. Even though they do that, this video should play, there are many of the bacteria that form these root nodules are actually capable of living on their own. Here is just a video where a researcher cut open one of these root nodules, started again in the beginning, and then squeezed it. You can see this looks like really fine powder exuding from the root nodule. They squeeze it. You can see it puff out. That's all bacteria. Some bacteria, even when they're in this bacteroid state, retain the ability to reform their cell wall and then start to live independently again. If you cut them open, you can actually culture some of these bacteria, which is really interesting. This nodulation, this is a very specialized process that only occurs in some plants. It is common in legumes. That means it's common in things like peas and peanuts and beans of different kinds. Many other plants, for example, potatoes and rice, don't form associations with nitrogen fixing bacteria and can't get a lot of nitrogen from this type of interaction. They're stuck getting fixed nitrogen at lower quantities than the legume species and having to find other ways of getting nitrogen. One solution that was recently discovered in maize is this mucilage. These are actually brace roots from maize. Here's a maize plant. It produces these brace roots, which are truncated roots that are coming out above ground. They will produce a lot of mucilage. This clear stuff that you see here, that's not water. That's something that the roots have exuded. That mucilage will actually trap nitrogen fixing bacteria that happen to be traveling through the air. Then it will drip them down into the soil by their root systems so that the nitrogen fixing bacteria will then be making nitrogen in a place that the plant can access. I think that's actually a pretty cool example of maize, which is not able to form root nodules, figuring out how to get nitrogen for itself. Now, not every variety of maize does this. In fact, most of the ones that we grow commercially don't have this capability, but it's an interesting example of a wild relative of the maize we usually eat being able to form an association with nitrogen fixing bacteria. Here's where we get to synthetic fertilizer. In 1910, the Haber-Posch process was invented for chemically fixing nitrogen gas. Instead of relying on bacteria to fix atmospheric nitrogen into a form that's what we call bioavailable or able to be used by plants and people to build proteins, they were fixing the nitrogen gas through a chemical process. Here's just an outline of what this process looks like. You can read the Wikipedia page about the Haber-Posch process if you're curious about these steps, kind of like this simplified view of the Haber-Posch process better, where you're taking nitrogen gas and hydrogen gas and you are mixing them together and applying a lot of heat in order to get ammonia or the fixed version of nitrogen to be made. This process is very energy intensive, but it's also very powerful because this fixed nitrogen is what we then apply to plants as chemical fertilizer in order to get them to grow. Now the plants are no longer dependent on the microbes growing in or around them in order to be able to produce proteins and get quite productive, get quite big. They can rely on chemical fertilizers supplied by people. Now, these chemists, Fritz Haber and Carl Bosch won Nobel Prizes in chemistry for developing this, for developing the Haber-Posch process. So the invention of this nitrogen fertilizer dramatically increases food production. The world population has grown very significantly, right? We're more than 7 billion people in the world right now, close to 8 billion, in fact. But the world population without synthetic fertilizer is predicted to have been much lower, about half the population, because we would not have been able to feed as many people without this synthetic fertilizer. So this red line shows you where we would be without this synthetic fertilizer, and the gray line is just showing the proportion of the world population that is able to be fed because we have invented these synthetic fertilizers. And they were, again, invented right here around 1910. So a really powerful invention. But like I mentioned before, it wasn't just fertilizer. There was a simultaneous invention of semi-dwarf food crops that enabled fertilizer to boost crop yields. So here's a picture on the left of semi-dwarf wheat. This wheat is shorter than conventional wheat. It has sort of a sturdier stem. The cells, individual cells within the plant actually don't get quite as big, and so you get a more compact structure. And that's really helpful because as you apply fertilizer to these plants, they will both get taller. But the semi-dwarf plant won't get so tall that it's a problem, whereas the conventional wheat plants or the conventional plants of even rice or barley will get so tall that they'll lodge. And that means they'll fall over in response to kind of gusty winds, stormy conditions. And when the plants fall over like this, it becomes very difficult for them to set seed and for farmers to harvest the grain. And so lodging usually results in large losses of agricultural product. So these semi-dwarf plants were really key to farmers being able to utilize the fertilizer because they could apply fertilizer to these plants and get an increase in grain yield instead of just more straw biomass. So I like to point out the invention of this semi-dwarf wheat because I don't think it's quite as famous, though agronomist Norman Borlaug, who is the person that developed semi-dwarf wheat, actually won a Nobel Prize for his efforts as well. He won it, I think, 30 years after the Haber and Bosch Nobel Prize was given out. So kind of exciting. And now there are problems with applying lots of nitrogen fertilizer to farms. You can get runoff. So if you apply more fertilizer to a farm than the plants actually need, then the excess nitrogen can end up in waterways where organisms that would are essentially limited in growth by the amount of nitrogen. Remember, like all nitrogen has to get fixed from this gaseous form by some sort of microbe. And there aren't a lot of those nitrogen fixing bacteria naturally in the world. So if you supply a lot of synthetic fertilizer, you can get big blooms of organisms. In this case, this is an algae growing in a lake. And the algae actually grow so vigorously that they use up a lot of oxygen in the lake and that kills off a lot of other things, like a lot of other fish and animals that require oxygen within the water to survive. And so excess nitrogen running off of farms can be really problematic for ecosystems near farms and even actually pretty far away from them, as these these chemicals can travel pretty far. OK, so can we move away from synthetic fertilizer? This is a question that people have been asking and trying to figure out.