We're going to talk about tools for seeing biology. This will set us up to think about biodiversity and other things, but this is really just about tools for seeing biology. So let's get into it. Earlier in class, we talked about living matter and what makes it unique from a bioengineer's perspective. I want to focus on the last thing that we introduced, and it has to do with tools and tools of our time, 21st century tools. And when we think about seeing, seeing is a tool related to measurement or observing. So we're going to highlight that and really think about what we're doing in terms of observing or seeing or measuring biology. Earlier we saw an example, incredible video from Grant Jensen's laboratory at Caltech in Pasadena, California, using an electron microscope to create a representation to see what's going on in a bacterial cell. This is one of my favorite examples because this bacteria, if you remember, actually grows magnets or magnetic crystals in an array that helps the bacteria react to magnetic fields. So it's a magnetotactic bacteria. And so somehow we go from this microscopic organism to a fancy computer graphic that lets us see what's happening in the biology. And of course, if you're thinking about being an engineer, imagine being an engineer with a system where you can't see anything. You could do it, but it'd be tricky, be much easier to be an engineer if you can see what's going on. So that's why we care about seeing and observing and tools that let us see. Now, so far, it might not make any sense at all how these sorts of images are generated. So we're going to dig into that. The technique has a fancy name, electrocryotomography, which is basically cold temperature electron microscopy with a tilting sample tomography. So cold temperature, that's cryo, electro, electron microscopy, tomography, tilting sample. And if you go down to Pasadena, they're happy to welcome you at Caltech to their CryoEM facility, cold temperature electron microscopy facility. And within that facility, according to their website, you see an instrument that looks like this, looks complicated, looks big, looks expensive. You know, these instruments, these CryoEM machines fill up a room. They cost a million bucks, maybe 10 million bucks for one microscope, $10 million, $7 million. Whoa. How do they work? We're going to observe a sample using an electron microscope. We'll explain that in a little bit. And the sample is going to have to be in a vacuum. So the electrons in the electron microscope get right to the sample. Now if I put something in a vacuum and it's alive, like how would you do if you were in outer space? If you were like in a spaceship, you're like, I'm out of here. And you didn't have a space suit on, you just like went out of the spaceship and you're in the vacuum. My guess is you already know that you wouldn't do well, but why is that? Well, if in outer space, the pressure is low, there's a vacuum. Think about what happens to water when you put water in a vacuum, you lower the boiling temperature of water. The water will start to boil at lower and lower temperatures, the lower the vacuum. In space, of course, water is just going to boil off. If you're alive, living things have water inside them. So if an electron microscope, the sample's in a vacuum, that it's like, how are you going to do in outer space? You're going to, you're going to like, are you going to explode? No, not really. You're going to burst though. And so you don't want that to happen because you can't really see what the thing looks like if it blows up, if it bursts, right? The thing that's full of water in a vacuum, quote, explodes or burst. To solve that problem, one approach is to freeze it, right? And so you could freeze the living sample quickly to fix the water so that the water can't evaporate into the vacuum. It will eventually, but not in the same way. And so the way this works is to use something really cold, something cryogenic, hence cryo electron microscopy. Cryo is any temperature below negative 153 Celsius. Well, liquid nitrogen, that's convenient. You know, if you cool down nitrogen and so it's a liquid, it's 100, negative 195 Celsius. Basically what you do oftentimes is you'll first put your sample very quickly. You know, for example, if you grow an ice crystal slowly, if you let it form slowly, you'll get big crystals. You don't want that to happen because that'll disrupt the sample too. So if you're going to freeze your living sample, you've got to go like a plunge, flash freeze. And so the first thing you do oftentimes is you don't go right into liquid nitrogen. You go into liquid ethane, which isn't quite as cold, but can absorb more heat. And so it's a faster way of cooling something down to quickly freeze it until you do a quick like plunge or dunk in the liquid ethane and then move it over to nitrogen, liquid nitrogen, then put it in. Wow, sounds complicated. But okay, so just give you a sense of like how the Jensen lab is creating these microscopic amazing images of cells. Now the next thing is we're going to tilt the sample, right? So if you're looking at something, you're like, look at your hand right now. What you're seeing is the light reflecting back off your hand. And you've got two eyes, so let's cover one eye, right? And now we're seeing the light. And your hand is a pseudo two-dimensional object, right? Even though you know your hand's a three-dimensional object, right? And so if we wanted to create an image of a three-dimensional object, but we can only see it in two dimensions, well, one thing we could do is we could move where we are with relation to the object. And it's like, oh yeah, if I look at my hand from this perspective, I get a different image, right? But in this microscope, instead of moving the microscope around, we're just going to tilt the sample, that's tomography. And by tilting the sample, we'll be able to get images from different perspectives or slices. That's what's shown here. And if we collect all of those images and keep track of them, then we can use a computer or software to infer and reconstruct what the three-dimensional object looks like. That's called tomographic reconstruction. This is used in microscopy and some types of medical imaging, right? But it gives you a sense of... So now we have this fancy word electro, cryo, tomography, cold temperature electron microscopy with a tilting sample. And we have a sense of what's going on, but let's dig in a little deeper just to make sure we have a good foundation for how seeing things relates to bioengineering. And to do this, we've got to remind ourselves like, how do we see things in the first place? Like if I'm looking at an apple, how come I can see an apple on an apple tree outside? That's because there's sunlight and the sun is emitting various forms of radiation, for example, visible light. And that light has different wavelengths. When it encounters an object, some of that light can be absorbed by the object, reflected by the object, refracted or passed through the object. And if light's, for example, reflected by an object, it can go into my eyes or your eyes, right? And in your retina, different wavelengths will be detected. So an apple, for example, will absorb visible light except for the red, and then that gets reflected and, oh, an apple's red, or it's a green apple, you know, it's reflecting the green and absorbing the rest. So radiation hits an object and can pass through and so on. So that's how we're seeing things. This radiation comes in different wavelengths. So let's think about how wavelengths determine what we observe and why we might be interested in, as bioengineers, an electron microscope in addition to a visible light microscope. So here's a really cool video that helps us understand how the wavelength of light is related to the resolution of what we can observe. Now what's resolution? It's resolving things, right? So if I'm looking at two objects, do I see them as two separate objects that I can clearly, you know, separate from one another, or, and I can't, if I can't tell them apart, then I can't resolve them, right? So like how far apart do two things need to be in order for me to see them as being two separate things? So this is a really neat video to illustrate the point. I've got an object that is just a pattern of lines and the lines are some distance apart. And right now, because we have a whole bunch of different wavelengths of visible light looking at this microscopic object, we can see the lines as being different from each other. But in this clever example, what's going to happen is we're going to use green light, right? So suddenly we're only looking at this object using green light, which has a wavelength and we can still see it, right? We go to red, it's a little bit harder to see, right? Red wavelength is a little bit longer than green, not by much, what is it, like a hundred nanometers longer in the wavelength. And because of that, it's much harder to resolve or tell apart the lines here, right? And the further out we go into the red, like suddenly we can't, it's the same object. The object's not changed. The only thing that's changed is the wavelength of light we're looking to observe the object and whether or not we can tell apart features within the object. And so as the wavelength has gotten longer, we're not able to resolve the fine details in the same way, all right? So there's this relationship between the radiation and the wavelength of the radiation and how it reacts with the object and how we observe it. And the longer the wavelength, the bigger things have to be, the farther apart things have to be for us to see them as apart. Conversely, the smaller the wavelength, the shorter the wavelength, in other words, the better resolution we're going to get. So the nice thing about wavelengths is there's plenty of wavelengths. And in bioengineering, the most relevant wavelengths right now, at least, are the visible wavelengths, which are shown here. And so if we use a light microscope, what we mean by that is visible light microscope, we'll be able to resolve objects that are a couple hundred nanometers in resolution. And here you see red is a little bit longer than green. And so that's why green in the example, cleverly set up example, was able to see the tiny distances between the lines. But we were talking earlier about an electron microscope. So different type of radiation and so a different wavelength. And what's so interesting is the wavelength on an electron microscope is going to be way down here. And if you come down to the bottom of the slide, you can see that these wavelengths, if the visible wavelengths are somewhere between, say, a virus particle and a whole cell, that means the visible wavelengths on a light microscope are going to let us see microorganisms and some of the structures inside microorganisms. But now if we jump down here, several orders of magnitude shorter wavelengths to electron microscope wavelengths, come down here, it's like, oh, those wavelengths are between the size of a molecule and the nucleus of an atom. Thus, we should be able to resolve objects and structures that are much closer together. All right. So let's look at another video of an electron microscope. Again, we'll stick with the Jensen Lab, amazing group, super inspiring researchers. And let let them walk us through how they can help us see what's happening in a living cell. All right. The first thing we're going to look at is the sample frozen in one of these fancy microscopes and it being tilted and the images being captured. So you can see the tilting, there's a bacterial cell in the middle and it's being tilted back and forth. Isn't that incredible? Let's look at that again. You might notice all these dark dots all around. Those are typically gold dots, like physical particles of gold or something that the electron microscope, the electrons will really interact with. And so it's very easy to tell what's there. And these are registers or markers that the computer software can use in the tomographic reconstruction to help understand where things are in three-dimensional space and create a more accurate three-dimensional reconstruction of the cell. So those are purposely added to the sample when it's frozen to create a set of marks or indices that make it easier to do the 3D reconstruction. So that's the tomography part. Now we're going to do computational reconstruction. So let's see what that looks like. Instead of tilting, we're just representing it as an up-down series of slices. And so now it looks like this is what the microscope's seeing, but this is actually a computational reconstruction of all the tilts to give you a stack of slices from the raw data. Now that we've constructed this three-dimensional representation from the tilted slices, we're going to start to identify biological aspects of the cell about the membranes encompassing the cell. We've got an outer and inner membrane. We're going to identify those structures in purple and blue. Remember this is an electron microscope that's got resolution between nuclei and molecules. And so, you know, it looks like if you just look at the image, it's like, oh, it looks kind of grainy. But we're going to zoom in and pick up on the detailed resolution of the microscope. So within this membrane, oh, we've got some petite glycan, right? We've got these structures of atoms that are part of the membrane system surrounding the cell. The nucleoid, as a bacteria, you're not going to have a nucleus, but you're going to have a region where the chromosome is condensed or localized. And so you can be, that's the DNA in other words, and you can begin to say, well, what does that look like? Where's that? Right. And here they're highlighting that and using the computer to identify that. The flagella is something that's typically sticking out of the cell and pushes the cell through the environment. It pushes the cell by spinning around, to spin around, it has to have a motor. The motor is made of proteins. And here's what that looks like. By the way, you have microscopic motors inside cells, pushing cells around, right? Like that sounds like engineering. If you're going to be moving around, you need to have a sensor array to know where you want to go. You're going to be sensing chemicals. And so here are the things on the surface of the cell that are interacting with molecules in the environment. And depending on what's interacting with the receptors on the cell surface, you're going to control your motor, moving the flagella, pushing you around or tumbling. Maybe you have to have things coming in and out of the cell, pores and other stuff, right? So it's pretty cool, right? It's just absolutely amazing. These microscopic objects made of molecules that turn out to be cells have all these different parts and using electron beams and a fancy electron microscope, we can take a look at what these things look like. And once you get a sense of what they look like, it feels a lot easier to be a bioengineer. You know, it's like, do we want this thing over there? What if we changed it? What would that look like? Right? Ribosomes. Oh yeah. Those are the things that make proteins. What are they in the cell? Oh, they're around, you know, where the DNA is and we can count how many there are and so on and so forth. So, so you get the idea. So I just want to take a deep dive into something that sounds really complicated and totally esoteric, which valid, but hopefully you have a sense of, well, this is what 21st century bioengineering is enabled by, right? Okay, good. However, what are some of the limitations of this microscope? First off, it's really expensive. I don't have one of these, you know, people on my team, they get to use it, but we have to go like beg or borrow for access and it's like really grateful we can use it. It's like, whoa, who can afford a $10 million microscope? Hardly nobody. So be nice if this costs like $10, would that be possible? Another thing is, well, this is frozen and so it's not really alive. I'm like seeing everything in one fixed time and so I'm not really sure how it works. I just like, I can see it, like, but what's really behaving? It'd be like having a photograph of people playing soccer and you're like, how does soccer work? If you could just see one image and you don't get to see the players running around, right? It'd be like, do you really understand soccer? If you could just see one image on the field, I'd rather have something that's not frozen, but I have to freeze it.