treasure trove, a library of useful molecules that who knows what they do, we know what some of what they do, but they could do many more. It's like a Lego kit we haven't fully understood yet. Any bioengineer who like wants to build with biology, well, you just have to be crazy not to want to keep things from going extinct because it's where we're going to get all our gizmos. That's my utility argument. I'm very happy to make a more argument, just like natural biodiversity is good, species are good in and of themselves. But let me give you an example of utility, different from the Limulus pyrogen test. This is a quote antifreeze protein. Now they've been renamed, I think they're called ice structuring proteins now, but this is a protein isolated from the cold water ocean pelt that is capable of modifying how water freezes. And what's very interesting about this protein is it allows these ocean pelt creatures to exist in waters that are colder than freezing, like antifreeze, but it's not antifreeze that kills you, you know, a poison. It's a protein based antifreeze. It's an ice structuring protein. What's this good for? Ice cream. If you want to have really smooth ice cream, you got to use a lot of fat. You know, like you leave your ice cream in the freezer and the freezer, it freezer burn over time, right? As the freezer is modulating its temperature a little bit to keep frost from forming and that freeze thawing, you know, has these ice crystals growing. And so, you know, the best way to avoid that historically is just have really fatty ice cream, right? Because that fat will keep the ice crystals from growing. That's good ice cream, but it's bad for you if you have heart disease or problems with cholesterol in your blood, perhaps. What if we could take, instead of adding more fat to the ice cream, just add in some of this fish protein by doing some bioengineering and making lots of that protein in a fermenter, purifying it, adding it to the ice cream. And now we have low fat ice cream that doesn't grow ice crystals in your freezer. No freezer burn. All right. Like who knew? Better ice cream? You're welcome, says the ocean pal. Isn't that amazing? Every natural living creature is full of molecules, some of which we know what they do. And the more we know about what they do, the more we can use them to do other things that can be useful too. Again, I don't want to make the argument in favor of bioengineers caring for natural biodiversity only on the basis of utility. I think there's other ways of making this argument too. And so in general, let's think about how bioengineers make decisions, whether it's for biodiversity, biosafety, biosecurity, we'll get to those things later in the course. But like generally, bioengineers are always confronting decisions, whether this is the right thing to be doing or the wrong thing to be doing. And you're encountering that decision all the time in your life already. And underlying how you make these decisions is an idea, the moral compass. And so I'd encourage you to reflect a little bit about like, how do I decide whether or not something's the right thing to do or the wrong thing to do? We're expecting to get that question in bioengineering, but of course it's here because biology matters so much. Anybody interacting with biology as an engineer is going to encounter these types of questions all the time. You need a moral compass, in other words, to be a good bioengineer. Let's look at some more examples of what's going on. This one I find incredible. This returns to the passing comment I made about snakes as an invasive species in Guam. The brown tree snake has plagued Guam for years, destroying native wildlife, eating birds' eggs, biting residents, and knocking out electricity. Unlike many snakes, brown tree snakes eat prey they did not kill themselves and are vulnerable to acetaminophen. Taking advantage of these two weaknesses, scientists decided to airdrop dead mice laced with acetaminophen and attach them to streamers in areas near Guam's sprawling Anderson Air Force Base. The dead mice will be dropped by hand, one by one, from helicopters. Mice with streamers will be caught in the branches in the forest foliage where the snakes live and feed. So I'm not sure if you caught all that. There's an invasive snake in Guam. It's preying on the natural species and the trees. We're going to try and get rid of this by having dead mouse paratroopers that have, I think, Tylenol tablets associated with them. The snakes are going to eat the dead mice and then bleed out, basically, if I understand what's going on. We've got this dead mouse with Tylenol tablets or acetaminophen taped to a streamer such that it gets caught in the branches so the snakes will eat it. What an incredible story. What an interesting way of trying to remove an invasive species. Is it going to work? It might help a little bit. I don't think it'll solve the problem completely, but hopefully it's like, could we do better? Do bioengineers have other tools, we might imagine, that could help with invasive species? Here's another example. This video can be a little bit disturbing, so take care. In this example, we've got an invasive species, which is a mouse, on islands where native birds are being born. Albatross, the big wingspan bird that glides long distances, soars long distances across the ocean. The invasive mice are starving and hungry, so they're just going to eat the young albatross alive in the nest. Imagine being eaten alive by a mouse. Where did the mice come from? The mice weren't normally on the islands. They got there by swimming from another island or more likely on a ship that landed or something like that. So how could we ever solve that problem? It turns out there's a very compelling organization, islandconservation.org, it's a charity, the entire mission is preventing extinction by removing invasive species from islands. So I'd encourage you to think about how could they go about this? How could you get mice that weren't normally on islands and are eating all the interesting reptiles and birds, eggs and young creatures, causing them to go extinct? How could you get rid of the rats and the mice that shouldn't be there? Well, you could use toxicants, put down poisons, like poisonous food, baited food. Or you could put down lots of mouse traps, rat traps. Or you could put down cats, a biological drug, something that eats mice and rats. Or maybe you could do some bioengineering. Maybe you could have a bioengineered mouse that if you introduce your bioengineered mouse onto the island, it would breed with the other mice and cause all the mice to go extinct. All right, so we've got options. And then I just want to jump down to this row here. Is the option socially acceptable? Like, is putting down poison food on an island socially acceptable? No, it's controversial. Why? Because something besides the mice might eat it and be hurt. Is putting down a bunch of rat traps controversial? Yep, it is. Because maybe it's painful to the rats, or maybe it doesn't work completely. What about adding cats? That's controversial, because now we're just adding another invasive species to get rid of the first one. How are we getting rid of the cats? We're going to add dogs. And how are we getting rid of the dogs? I don't know. What about bioengineering a mouse to breed with invasive mice and cause the entire mouse population to go extinct? That'd be nice, because I only have to get one of those mice. But what if that mouse gets off the island, and then mice everywhere go extinct? That doesn't sound like a good idea. What's really interesting about the social acceptability role is every option is controversial. Oh, wait, there's one more option. Don't do anything. Just let all the native species go extinct. Well, of course, that's controversial, because we don't want things to go extinct. At least I don't. So, oh, so interesting. Every option is controversial. That's an opportunity. Could you make an option that wasn't controversial? Could you bioengineer something better? Which one, if you couldn't, would you choose of these? So, just to zoom out and summarize, we've introduced the idea of planet health. We've framed some initial puzzles around, are there any things bioengineers could do related to changes in land use, related to things like species in places where they aren't historically found, related to climate change and its impact on the environment, coral bleaching, related to pollution? Should we ignore what's going on? Should we react? Should we change what we're doing to prevent some of these things from happening in the first place? Or is there something you can imagine still different to do? Hopefully, at this point, when you stop to think about it, it's like, oh, yeah. And there's a lot of bioengineering opportunity related to planet health. And note that we've only talked about biodiversity so far. There's other aspects of planet health, too. Also, think about this in the context of the future you wish for. What do you want to be true in the year 2030, 2040, 2050 regarding planet health? Remember, we were talking about Pixar starting to do things in the 1980s to get to Toy Story in the 1990s. That same type of thinking of being an anticipatory leader applies for planet health, along with tools and tool development and people health, all of bioengineering. So, don't forget that part of what you're learning. Oh, yeah, by the way, if we're too late, if something went extinct, could we bioengineer it back? Reflective questions, and then we're done. What's happening to life on Earth beyond Homo sapiens? What is biodiversity? How is it measured? How do we know what's going on? Who's keeping track? Should bioengineers care about any of this? Maybe we should just care about people. Like, we're working at the hospital, and we're helping, and that's it, right? Or do you feel different? What are some of the most important bioengineering opportunities related to biodiversity and its conservation? What bioengineering knowledge and tools might help? Think of all the things you've learned so far, or the things you can imagine would be useful, but you haven't learned about yet.