Hi, welcome back to Introduction to Bioengineering. We talk about cancer this week because it's a leading cause of death in the United States. As people age, cancer, the likelihood that they contract and die from cancer increases. On this graph, you can see age of people in the U.S. and the cause of death for people of that age. And what I hope is clear is that cancer becomes more prevalent as you get older. I think this graph is really interesting to look at and I encourage you to come back to it to sort of think about, you know, how old are you and what are the things that are most likely to bring about your demise if you were to pass away soon. I want to point out that data is from 2017 and that there have been changes in cause of death across age groups in the U.S. in recent years. Those are mostly due to the COVID-19 pandemic and rise in opioid abuse in the U.S. And so some of this will have shifted around a little bit, but the kind of growing incidence of cancer with age and the high fraction of people that it kills, you know, this is around 30% of people 55 and older, is still very significant. Okay, cancer is a relatively new phenomenon. If you look at causes of death in Boston in 1812, so about 200 years ago, you'll see that five out of about a thousand people have cancer recorded as their cause of death. A lot more people are dying from tuberculosis or diarrhea, all kinds of other maladies, fevers of different types. And one of the reasons why people are dying of cancer is because of what was shown on this previous slide. You have to live to be a certain age in order to have your likelihood of cancer increase significantly. So that's part of it. People's life expectancies were not as long, 200 years ago. They may also not have recognized certain things as being cancer. And so you may have passed away because you got a fever, but the underlying condition that was leading you to be susceptible to a new type of death, for example, could have been a cancer. So an increase in our ability to diagnose cancer and then a lengthening in lifespans has brought about more and more cases of cancer in time. Now, what is cancer? Simply put, cancer is a disease in which some of the body's cells go uncontrollably and other parts of the body. On this slide, you're seeing a dividing breast cancer cell all the way on the left-hand side. You can see the DNA here in blue and the tubulin, which is sort of organized during this process of division. The green is mitochondria, the kind of energy powerhouses of the cell. And you can see just that it's more or less a normal cell, but it's dividing. And then on the right, you're seeing mammograms, which are essentially x-ray imaging of a patient who has very early stage breast cancer that's indicated by this little box. And what you'll notice is that it's more or less normal, but it's the cells in this area that have started to divide when they shouldn't. Now, I think an easy question to ask the point is, aren't cells supposed to grow, right? Why are the dangerous cells in your body are dividing? But although cells in your body are supposed to grow, they usually grow or multiply in order to fulfill a need. For example, they may replace old cells, but when they grow and multiply when they should, then they start to form tumors or little lumps of tissue that can either be cancerous or not cancerous. And whether you're cancerous or not is really just a measure of how fast you're growing, how sort of dangerous you are to the rest of the body. Now, cancerous tumors can spread into nearby tissues and can travel into distant parts of the body to form new tumors. This traveling into distant parts of the body is a process called metastasis and cancers become lethal when they interfere with the functions of organs and cells in your body. So you can actually live for a pretty long time with a tumor as long as it's not interfering with the function of the organ that it's growing in. So for example, lung cancer in this image, you're seeing stage four lung cancer. So this is pretty advanced. The tumor is this sort of whitish region you can see inside lung. If it were not interfering with lung function at all, if you were able to breathe normally, even with this big mass of cells growing inside of your lungs, it wouldn't be that dangerous. The problem is that these cancer cells often interfere with the function of the organ. So in this case, interfere with your ability to breathe, which is lethal, right? And if some of those cells break up from your lungs and travel via your blood system to other portions of your body, then you can get cancers or tumors forming in new locations that may be even less amenable to the growth of new cells. There are more than a hundred types of cancer. Cancers are usually aimed for the organs or tissues where they're from. So this could be lung cancer, brain cancer, etc. They may also be described by the type of cell that formed them. So they could be epithelial cells, squamous cells. Sometimes you'll hear a combination of both tissue that they're from and the cell type they're forming. And if you want to, you can go to this link at the bottom of the page and scroll through all of the different types of cancers that currently categorize or kind of break cancers up into. So you can read about each of them and I encourage you to do so. It's kind of astounding how many different types of cancer there are and differently they behave. There are two sort of broad categories that we're going to break down cancer into in this lecture. There are solid tumors. So this solid map of cancer cells, the breast cancer tumor that you saw on a previous slide, that's an example of a solid tumor. But you can also have liquid tumors. These occur in blood, bone marrow, or lymph nodes. And these are usually the product of a cell that is normally found in blood or lymph fluid growing uncontrollably. So in this case on the slide, you're seeing an example of where these white blood cells are replicating and taking over the blood. Essentially you're getting too many of them and that is what is liquid tumor. And it's different solid tumor and that is in circulation kind of throughout your body all the time. Here's just an example of a biopsy, blood biopsy, and you can actually see the sort of cancerous patient's blood sample has a few of these white blood cells in it. And then the cancerous person who has leukemia sample has a lot more of them. And they're just colored dark in this case because of the stain that's applied to the white blood cells or the blood in total before it's imaged on a microscope to make the blood cells easier to see. They're not actually that dark most of the time. Okay, so if those are the types of cancer we're going to talk about, solid tumors and liquid tumors, then a good question is what causes cancer, right? We know that it's an overproliferation of cells, but the cancer, like what causes them to overproliferate, right? Cancer is caused by changes in DNA, often in gene coding regions, but not with. So sometimes you get a gene that gets mutated and that makes the gene either non-functional or hyper-functional, and we'll talk about what that means in a second. So mutations that turn on oncogenes or inactivate tumor suppressors are the most dangerous. These are the ones that are most likely to cause cancer. Now, these are two different jargon words that I threw at you, and so let's define them. Oncogenes are genes that promote uncontrolled cell division and growth when they're institutively activated. So these are genes that stimulate your cells to grow and divide. Usually these genes are very tightly controlled. They're only addressed when you need to make a new cell to fill a function within the body, for example, to replace a dead or dying cell. But when they're turned on institutively, which means all the time, then you can get cells that they constantly need to be growing and therefore start to create little tumors. So mutation in an oncogene is one that will activate it. HER2 and KRAS are just examples of genes that are commonly to be turned on. These are oncogenes in cancers. Tumor suppressors, on the other hand, are genes that would usually slow or stop cell growth. These are inactivated in cancers. So in a normal cell, a tumor suppressor gene is intact. And in a cancerous cell, you may have damage to your DNA that bleeds or somehow inactivates one of these tumor suppressors. And without the tumor suppressor, without the expression of something like P50 to stop cell growth, you start to get uncontrolled cell growth and formation of the tumor. So mutations to oncogenes or tumor suppressors are what can lead to cancers. Here's an example of a very famous tumor suppressor. So you may or may not have heard of BRCA1. BRCA1 is a DNA repair protein that's expressed in breast and other tissues. The protein structure is shown on the slide right here. So this is a ribbon diagram showing you sort of the alpha helices or DNA binding regions of the protein and some business end of it. The protein is involved in error-free repair of DNA double-strand breaks. So your DNA gets broken all the time. Different things that you encounter in the environment can cause damage to your DNA. UV light is a good example of something that can cause damage to your DNA. This BRCA1 protein will come in and fix that damage, and it will fix it without errors, which is really important because that means you're not getting mutations in genes within your genome, wherever this BRCA1 protein is expressed. Now, BRCA1 is serving this DNA repair function in breast tissue and in ovarian tissue and pancreatic tissue to a smaller degree. And when it mutated, then you get more DNA damage in these tissues. So if you have a mutation in BRCA1, which occurs commonly actually in the human population, this is something that can be passed from generation to generation, from mother to child or from father to child. And when you hit a damaged BRCA1 copy, then your risk of getting breast cancer in women goes up 50% to 65%. Or a risk of getting pancreatic cancer is around 1% to 3%. Your risk of getting ovarian cancer is 40% to 65%. That's greater than a coin toss for both breast cancer and ovarian cancer. So it's pretty severe. It's really significant that people have figured out that this one gene is so important for cancer risk. Now, the discovery of BRCA1 has led to some really interesting behavior, some interesting prophylactic measures. So this just means sort of preemptive measures to try to prevent the patient from getting cancer. In this case, what you're seeing is actually Angela Jolie, a rather famous actress who elected to have a double mastectomy. So she had both of her breasts cut off because she discovered that she actually carried a broken copy of BRCA1, which meant that her risk of getting cancer was incredibly high. And she chose to remove the breast tissue to remove the chance she might one day get breast cancer because she had this lack of a functional BRCA1 gene. And actually her decision to do this, she published, or she was very vocal about, she published an opinion piece in the New York Times and talked about it on a number of daytime talk shows and actually led to a number of other women getting screened for BRCA1 mutations. They wanted to know, do I carry also a dysfunctional copy of the protein? And for women who found a mutation in their genome, in this BRCA1 gene, they were also electing mastectomies and hysterectomies, which is the removal of their ovaries. And she spurred this sort of increase in prophylactic mastectomies is called Angelina, actually, as people sort of tell their doctors, oh, I heard this actress talking about her decision to have a mastectomy because I want to know if I have this same mutation. So it's sort of interesting that this is one approach to avoiding, albeit a very extreme one, is one that people are pursuing. Now, BRCA1 has got some interesting history beyond just Angelina Jolie. A biotech company called Myriad Genetics first located BRCA1 gene on the human genome or human chromosome number 17 in the late 1990s. They actually established the first clinical lab to commercialize genetic testing. So they've established first genetic test that you could get prescribed by your doctor, and they saved countless lives by informing women about their BRCA1 risk. But they also patent the BRCA1 gene sequence and cancer-promoting mutations. So they patent the sequence of the fully functional gene and a version of the gene that would activate it that are commonly found in people. And this patent prevents other companies from running BRCA1 to diagnostic tests from looking for this same gene. So it's great for Myriad Genetics. Now they have essentially a monopoly on this type of test. It's not so good for patients because the cost of getting one of these tests becomes really high. Myriad Genetics can essentially charge whatever they want. They have competition and patients can't get second opinion. So if Myriad Genetics comes back and says, no, you're fine, you don't have this BRCA1 mutation, but a patient sees so much familial history of breast cancer or ovarian cancer, and they want a second opinion, there's no place to get them. And so this actually causes a legal battle. And genetics is sued by the Association for Molecular Pathology. And this, this course case goes all the way to the Supreme Court. And this court rules actually against the molecular Myriad Genetics, excuse me. They decide that you cannot patent a DNA segment, which is really fascinating. Actually, it has some interesting ramifications on the current kind of state of diagnostics in the country and of biotech. Here is a quote from the majority opinion, which was written by Chief Justice Clarence Thomas in 2013. He said, a naturally occurring DNA segment is a product of nature and not patent eligible merely because it has been isolated. However, cDNA is patentable because it is not naturally occurring. So that's interesting. They really decide you cannot patent BRCA1 or it's naturally occurring mutant for mutant versions. And so that opened up other companies to be able to make BRCA1 genetic tests and sort of do the same thing that Myriad Genetics has been doing. But they leave the door open for patenting cDNAs. So cDNA is complementary DNA. It's DNA that's made in the lab in vitro from RNA. So you start with an RNA message and you build DNA that is essentially the complement of the RNA. And those sequences you can patent. So while this did throw Myriad Genetics' business model into a bit of turmoil and actually make it really difficult for the company to continue to develop new genetic tests and profit from them, it didn't completely scruff innovation in biotech or in diagnostics altogether as people worked to figure out how to kind of avoid running out of the Supreme Court and work with cDNA in order to get patentable genetic material. Here's a picture of the Supreme Court in 2013 if you're curious about the people who made the decision about cDNA and whether or not humans can patent naturally occurring DNA. Okay, so if genetic changes can underlie cancer, then a good question is what causes genetic changes. You can inherit specific genetic sequences from your parents. That's sort of how the BRCA1 mutation is passed from generation to generation. UV light though and chemicals, smoking, these things in your environment can also cause damage to your DNA. Viruses and then even just the process of cell division can also cause damage to your DNA. And because each of these exposures increase with age, you get more and more DNA mutations as you age and that is part of why your cancer risk goes up as you age. So here's just a cartoon example showing a child who has had very limited exposure to harsh chemicals, to viruses, has had less cell division because he just hasn't grown that much. And as this child ages, they may encounter more and more DNA damaging agents in their environment and start