and have been very specifically picked out in order to help maximize killing of cancer cells and minimize killing of healthy cells. So the T cell is, it is what's called expanded in vitro. So it's just stimulated to grow itself that you get millions of these T cells. And then they're infused back into the patient who we originally took the T cell from. So your own cells are getting taken out of your body, engineered, and then put back. And when they're put back into the body, they should find cancerous cells within your body, use the chimeric antigen receptors to bind to them and to start to kill them. And incredibly, this stuff works. This is an article celebrating the 10-year anniversary of a child's first CAR T therapy. There was a six-year-old woman named Emily who had an acute lymphocytic leukemia, and she was treated with CAR T therapy and has survived. She is now 16 and still cancer-free thanks to this type of therapy, which is pretty amazing because she had had many unsuccessful rounds of chemotherapy and her disease was progressing so rapidly that she was ineligible for bone marrow transplants and other things that are often used to treat leukemias. This was really a last line of defense for her. It was a brand new technology at the time, and it is pretty amazing that it has worked so well. Since Emily, lots and lots of people have received CAR T therapy, and it's been great. It actually helped cure cancer in lots of people worldwide, but it's so contributing. So CAR T therapy is incredibly expensive. It costs anywhere from $500,000 to around a million dollars per patient that gets treated. It's expensive because of the types of manipulations and treatments involved. So for each patient, you need to collect T cells, you need to run biopsies to sort of see how their cancers are progressing. You need to actually engineer those T cells so that they have antigen receptors being expressed from them. You need to reintroduce these CAR T cells into the patient and they are monitored after infusion quite a while instead of staying in the hospital for a while. They get imaging studies and medicines kind of all the time in order to ensure this CAR T therapy is going well. There's actually a whole page dedicated to navigating the financial aspects of CAR T therapy. You can actually read that down here. I thought that was interesting. There's also, when this was first coming out, a lot of stories in the news about how expensive this therapy actually is. But what we pay for care, it's sort of a difficult thing to put a dollar amount on. I think most people would pay a lot to save their only child or their young child if they had the means to be able to do so. But who really has the means to pay a million dollars for a therapy, right? So just an interesting aspect of CAR T, there are many insurance companies that do cover this type of thing now, but it is an active area of debate to figure out how to bring cost of therapies that have been expensive to develop down in price and to make them actually impactful because if they are too expensive, it really won't have the reach that it could. In addition, I want to emphasize how incredible I think CAR T therapies are, but then also give you a little side of this. I think it's an important part of being well-versed in bioengineering is to really not just think about how good certain things are, but also what are the challenges that we're still facing with some of these new technologies. With CAR T therapy, there's still a lot for us to learn. We're about 13 years now after the first CAR T treatments, and since then, researchers have found instances of cancer relapse. It's only about one-fifth to one-third of patients that go into complete remission, so they never ever have a relapse, which is still pretty good, better than a lot of cancer therapies, but not perfect. We have identified patients for whom the therapy just does not work, and as far as I know, they still don't really understand what it is that leads this type of therapy to work really well for some patients and less well for others. They found instances where CD8 cells, so this is the type of T cell that's usually being engineered to express these chimeric antigen receptors, turn into CD4 cells, which is a different type of T cell. CD4 cells are more like helper cells that sort of assist in the killing of things, whereas CD8 cells are called killer T cells because they're the ones that are actively destroying and invading the body, so it's sort of a mystery to what it is that's causing CD8 cells to turn into CD4 cells. After the CAR T therapies eliminated cancer from a patient's body, is it just that that's how immune systems sort of naturally progress? What is going on there? It's sort of an interesting area of research for people to dive into and continue to explore. In some patients, there are serious signs for CAR T therapy. You can get high fever, have slipped into comas, get really low blood pressure. Typically, these are acute and resolve pretty quickly, but there have been a couple of instances where patients have not survived demonstration of CAR T therapy, and that is still not very well understood, and is another thing to figure out for the type of treatment. It's rare, but it does happen. Okay, and then CAR T therapies are not successful in solid tumors. Ah, okay, so we'll get back to the solid tumors in a second. Now, CAR T therapy has been under kind of constant technological innovation. People are constantly trying to make this stuff better, and there have been some really incredible things that have been done to try to improve CAR T therapies. I'm just going to talk about two of them today, but I encourage you to dig into the literature to find out more interest in CAR T therapy. So, here's an example where researchers have improved CAR T therapy specificity. So, I mentioned that tumor cells are not that different from healthy cells, because they are essentially derived from your healthy cells. So, they are you. They're just sort of your cells out of control, and they may have more copies of specific proteins on their surface than a normal cell, but it's the same protein that's on the surface, and so if a CAR T cell recognizes this specific surface protein, then it may go about killing a bunch of normal cells in addition to killing tumor cells if it has a linear relationship with oxygen recognition and killing, so that's sort of shown here. This engineered CAR T cell would kill both this normal cell and the T cell, and so Rogelio Hernandez-Lopez, who is also a professor of bioengineering at Stanford, developed an approach to change sort of the sensitivity of the CAR T cell to the amount of antigen displayed on the surface of a cell, and so the way this is supposed to work is that at kind of low concentrations of surface markers on these cells, you would get no CAR T cell killing, and only if there was a high concentration of the surface marker, which would indicate that this is actually a tumor, so what you get like the, which is essentially killing of that cell. Okay, how does this actually work? Here's a little schematic for how this type of CAR T cell kind of ultra-sensitive switch works. I'm not actually going to go through it in this lecture, but it's here if you want to think about how this might work. There's a low affinity switch, a high affinity switch, and one kind of leads to the other, and that's the way that they engineered this ultra-sensitivity. Some data I want to show you where they tried putting two different types of tumors into mice. One is a very slow-growing non HER2 tumor, and so HER2 is an example of one of these antigens that may be on the surface of a normal cell at a low concentration and on the surface of a tumor cell or cancerous cell at a high concentration, and when mice who have these different types of tumors on their flanks are injected with CAR T cells with their ultra-sensitive switch, they are able to completely stop tumor growth of the tumor that has a high concentration of HER2 and really not attenuate the growth of the others all that much. It's just trying to show you that this type of CAR T cell is able to very specifically pick out cell types in the body based on the amount of SIRK protein that they're showing. This is kind of an extreme example where both of the cell types they're monitoring are in fact human tumors put into mice, but it is showing you that the kind of SIRK that they enter into these T cells is actually working. The T cell is now able to pick out, based on the concentration of HER2 on the surface of the cell, whether or not it should kill the cell or not. Okay, so that's Rogelio's work. I highly recommend you check this out. The other thing I want to talk about are solid tumors because solid tumors, as I mentioned, are difficult to treat with CAR T therapy. In contrast to blood and lymph cancers, things that are called liquid tumors, which move through blood vessels, it is difficult to access the cancerous cells in a solid tumor. You can imagine if this mixture of cells is floating around in blood and mixed with a bunch of T cells, the T cells could easily add all of these extra lymph cells and destroy them, all of these cancerous cells. But if the cancer cells are within the solid mass of tumors or of a tumor, then it can be difficult for the T cells to get in there and start killing off the cancer cells. And that's a problem because many different cancers come from solid tumors, right? Here's a PET scan showing you a lung cancer. Here's a brain cancer, colon cancer, liver cancer. All of these are very T types of cancers and they're all solid tumors and not currently treatable with CAR T therapy. Okay, so why is it? Well, it turns out that typically the tumor microenvironment, sort of the conditions in a solid tumor, suppress T cell activation. That's what this little red bar is trying to show you. And that includes cytokine production, which can help sort of stimulate T cell activation. And so the bioengineers have bypassed the suppression by engineering synthetic I2 circuits into T cells that are activated independently. So the tumor therefore is not, so how do I explain this? The surface marker that would usually be recognized by the T cell would be the triggering event to activate the T cell. But because the tumor microenvironment is sort of suppressing this inactivity and preventing this IL2 production, which feeds back and sort of helps reinforce activation of this T cell, you don't get T cell activation. Here they've decoupled the two. And so now when the T cell recognizes surface marker that it's interested in, it produces its own interleukin-2 and that kind of helps reinforce T cell activation. And this T cell kind of ignores the signals that the tumor is sending to stop its activity. And what you can see in these images on the right are that CAR T cells would normally get kind of stuck, sort of black dots along the top at the surface of a solid tumor, which is here. Whereas when they have their engineered CAR T cells with this interleukin-2 circuit, they, you get in the CAR T cells into the solid tumor, and you can see them already sort of destroying this tumor environment. Also exciting. So this is work done by Professor Kyle Daniels. He is a new professor at Stanford and is continuing to push forward CAR T therapy in exciting ways. Okay. So those are the two kind of CAR T advances I wanted to highlight for you guys today. And, you know, where is this going next? Well, there are so many different types of new CAR T therapy modifications being developed and tested to improve this technology, to make it better for solid tumors, to make it more specific and have side effects. And so, you know, I would encourage you to check this out. I wanted to put up this picture of a naked mole rat because I think they're cute and they're fascinating because these rodents actually don't get cancer. And so there's something that people have been interested in studying, have been studying for quite a while to figure out, like, why is it that these rodents don't get cancer? And can we steal any tricks from them? People have figured out relatively recently is that one of the reasons why mole rats don't get cancer probably has to do with a special hyalurone in their extracellular matrix. This kind of sugar is something that they think helps with the elasticity of the naked mole rat skin. But when they interfere with production of this compound in the naked mole rat, they actually do start to get tumors forming. And so it's thought that maybe the molecule or really the kind of structure of the extracellular matrix is important for tumor or cancer cell development and progression. And so there are questions about whether this molecule could help humans avoid cancer. There's a lot of research being done with naked mole rats. In addition to carotenoids and new methods of diagnosing cancer and new, you know, protein-based treatments, all kinds of stuff, there really is a ton of work being done on cancer and all these different types. And so I encourage you to dig deep and see, you know, what interests you in cancer and in bioengineering specifically. Okay, here are reflective questions for today. How often would you want to be screened for cancer? Let's say that you had access to these tests, $1,000 per test for 50 plus cancer. Is that something reasonable? Would you do it every year, five years, every 10? If you only did it every 10 years, is that still effective? I just want you to think about the current state of cancer screening and cancer diagnosis and what you wish to change about it or what you think about it now. I think it's kind of incredible that we can engineer our own immune cells to take cancer, but what other diseases would we fight with this capacity to engine T-cells, to reprogram them, to find something that they wouldn't usually find in your body and just spit? Where would you look in the naked mole rat to learn the secrets of its cancer-free life? I don't really know the answer to this, but it would be fun for you to contemplate it. I only scanned the six CAR-T engineering here, so I want to encourage you now to go learn more about it. You can read links to some of the news articles we had here if you want to know more about Emily, that young girl who had CAR-T therapy when she was six, or if you want to know more about the kind of costs of CAR-T therapy, if you want to know more about the technologies, you can read the links to the scientific papers that are there. Whatever you found to be most interesting, I highly encourage you to dig deep on it and to learn more. All right, thanks so much.