to get accumulate some mutations and that process just accelerates as the person ages. And so your risk of cancer later in life is greater because you have had so much more exposure to things that may be damaging your DNA. Now, how we detect cancer is a really big question in the field because we know that early detection typically results in higher survival risk. Here are statistics for non-small cell lung cancer or stomach cancer and pancreatic cancer showing that if you catch the cancer in stage one or two, your chances of survival are much higher than if you catch them at stage three or four, literally half to maybe even a third or a quarter of the survival rate if you catch it earlier than if you catch it earlier. So it's really advantageous to figure out whether or not you have cancer as early as possible. Now brings us to a whole thing that we're going to have here on how cancer is diagnosed. So no single test diagnose cancer because there are so many different types of cancer. So it's really challenging to have one test that can tell you whether or not you have cancer at all. It may be able to tell you whether you have breast cancer or not, but it probably can't simultaneously detect a lymphoma or another type of cancer. So cancers are found via screening tests. You may show up to the doctor and say, I'm not feeling very well. And the doctor rules out a bunch of very specific or acute causes of whatever pain you're feeling. You have stomach pain. They may test you for different types of pathogens to see if you've picked up food poisoning somewhere, look for problems with your kidneys or appendix. Maybe you have kidney stones, but they can rule all of that out. They might start to run tests that look specifically for cancer. Another way you may at cancer testing done is just by age related screening. So for women after the age of 40, you start to get mammograms done, which are those types of x-ray tests we showed earlier looking for breast cancer or cancerous cells within your breast tissue. There's a similar type of screening that's done for men for prostate cancer, for people of both ages, they get screened for colon cancer vehicle colonoscopies after I think the age of 55. But unless you're falling into one of these categories where you either have symptoms or you're of a certain age that you would require screening, it's unlikely that you're going to get a lot of cancer screening early in life. Now, what do these screens look like? Or what are these tests look like? You can get a blood chemistry test. This looks at sugars and salts, different components of your blood, just to see how well your kidneys, liver, things that should be filtering the blood are working. And if you see, you know, very strange results from a blood chemistry test that may tell you like, oh, the kidneys are not working that well. Maybe we should do a follow-up test of some kind to see if there's something wrong with the kidneys. This may be an imaging-based test. And we'll talk about what those are in just a minute. Another pretty straightforward and routine type of test would be a complete blood cell count. This just looks for red and white blood cells. It counts basically how many of each type you have. They can be used to diagnose things like leukemias. Remember the slide I showed you earlier where there were these microscopy images showing you lots and lots of white blood cells in a person's blood sample. That would be a way of diagnosing a leukemia, basically saying there are more white blood cells here than we would expect. You may also have more white blood cells if you have an active infection and those cells are trying to fight off that infection. And so you do sort of have to decouple some of the blood cell count information from other things that may be making you sick, right? Like a high white blood cell count may not just be because of cancer. So you sort of have to use these things with all of the knowledge you have about a patient. Okay, you can do cytogenic analysis. You can basically look, take a sample and look at people's DNA and see if there are changes in chromosomes. Are there any broken, missing or rearranged? This could be that cancer is likely because these changes in chromosomes where pieces are obviously broken, missing or arranged are so severe that it could very well lead to cancer. You could get immunophenotyping. This is where you take the tissue and you try to stain it with different antibodies and those antibodies will identify specific proteins typically on the surface of cells. And you can use the protein content on the surface of the cell to diagnose and stage or monitor blood cancers. So certain blood cancers will have a high concentration of very specific surface markers. And so you can know what type of cancer you have by what type of antigens stick to the surface of your blood cells. You can do what's called sputum cytology. And so this is just, sputum is sort of like what you would cough up from your lungs. And if you analyze that, you can look at sort of what cells are getting coughed up from your lungs. If you have cancer, you may get an unusually high number of cells and cells just it sort of cellular mass or sputum. So that's one way of searching for, in this case, a lung cancer. You could look for tumor markers. So these could be proteins or other substances that are typically made in higher amounts by cancer cells than normal cells. So you, if you see a high number of tumor markers and a blood test, then you would assume or, or it is possible that you would cancerous cells somewhere in your body producing all of these proteins and substances. You can analyze urine. This is a way of potentially diagnosing kidney or urethral cancers. And if any of these sort of bodily fluids tests come back positive, you may follow it up with some based tests. So you can use CT scans. These are essentially a series of x-rays that create 3D images in the body. You can look for things like colorectal cancer or lung cancer this way. Often you'll ingest contrast agents that sort of help with these scans to make it clear where within your body cancer cells are active. You can get MRIs, which use radio waves to image the inside of a body. This can also be used to find solid tumors. You can use PET scans. This is another one where you would ingest a contrast agent before getting a PET scan. And it shows you where glucose is taken up in the body. And if you're ingesting, or if you're using a lot of glucose in one location, that's expected. And it might be that you have cancer cells there because cancer cells will consume a lot of sugar, a lot of glucose in order to grow quickly. That's another way of searching for cancer in the body. And then you may get a biopsy where a little bit of tissue is actually cut out of a tumor and it is analyzed under a microscope to see kind of hallmarks of disordered growth. And you can actually stain tissue that you collect from a biopsy to look for cell surface markers using antibodies, sort of in the same way that we were talking about these immunophenotyping tests before. These biopsies can help people stage and diagnose different types of cancers, not just blood cancers, because you're really taking samples from solid tumors in this case. Okay, so here's all of these different tests. And they're all good. They complement each other in different ways to be able to identify lots of different types of cancers. But can we do better than that? That's something that bioengineers have been asking for a while and trying to figure out an answer to. Because if we can get better early detection of cancer, we can increase the odds that people survive. So what about a better blood test? Here's an example that I really like in part because it's pushed forward by a professor here at Stanford. This is work out of Steve Quake's group. And here they're using cell-free DNA to try to detect pancreatic cancer at one of its very earliest stages. Now, what is cell-free DNA? It turns out it is exactly what it sounds like. It's actually DNA floating around in your blood that is not within a cell. How does it get there? Well, if it's a tumor, then there may be a lot of unhealthy cells and unhealthy cells because they're trying to grow so fast, maybe losing and releasing DNA from your insides, just kind of letting it out. And that DNA can very easily enter your bloodstream and end up circulating. And so you can collect a blood sample and actually look at just the DNA that is not housed within cells. You can, by centrifugation, separate whole cells from just DNA. And then you can sequence that free DNA and you can see, you know, is there anything unusual that I'm seeing in this free DNA? Because you will get some free DNA coming from healthy cells as well. What they found is that there's a lot of hydroxymethylcysteine, I'm sorry, cytosine signatures on cancer cells that are missing from pancreatic cells. And so if you do sequencing of cell free DNA and you look specifically for this type of modification and you don't see very much of it, then it's likely that you actually have a pancreatic cancer developing within the body, which is pretty amazing because pancreatic cancer is actually one of these cancers that is most frequently detected very late. It does not cause a lot of symptoms and by the time patients are losing weight and feeling ill, they often have very rest pancreatic cancer with typically months left to live. And so something where you can diagnose pancreatic cancer from a blood test would be really powerful because it could mean that you could get routine screening for this type of cancer, you know, well before you have any type of symptom. Okay, so actually this type of screening is being done commercially and not necessarily for pancreatic cancer in this case because this 5-methylcysteine, or sorry, cytosine modification is a newly identified signature for pancreatic cancer cells, but there are other cell free DNA markers that you can look for and this company is selling tests that will allow you to search for 50 different cancers with a blood test. Here's just a workflow for how this type of thing works. We have patients that they collect blood samples from in the clinical trials where they were trying to establish that this type of screen test work, they would randomize essentially these samples and some of them as a control that are just stored for future testing, but other ones are run through their kind of proprietary test to see whether or not the patient's blood contains DNA that would indicate that they had a specific type of cancer and then they would refer patients who had a positive test to, you know, might have cancer to further diagnosis and assess to see whether or not their tests were correct and they were good enough to get approval to be sold. These tests run about a thousand dollars per test, so for a thousand dollars you can get tested for three different cancers all at one and the idea is that you would do this on healthy patients to screen for cancers that they don't even know that they have for things that are not really causing any symptoms. So I think that's really powerful and can be very impactful if we can really screen people regularly for cancers in an in-base way, that would be great. Is a thousand dollars, at a thousand dollars a test, how frequently do you want to do this? I'm not sure, it's actually something I would love for you guys to ponder and consider. Okay, what else can you do for early cancer detection? I showed you this image already and what I think is really fascinating about this is actually in this early image, these are the same patients taken at different time points and you can see that hopefully there's actually almost nothing in this red box, right? I would not certainly have looked at that and said that looks like a cancerous mass, especially as it looks pretty similar to other parts of breast tissue. Later, after the breast cancer develops, you can more clearly see that there is a tumor growing there. The innovation here is actually from a professor out of MIT's lab. She's using image-based deep learning models, so machine learning models, to predict breast cancer up to five years in advance. So you can take these images, they've been trained, this model has been trained on the seed breast cancer images at different stages and the machine learning model can now pick out areas that might look up like they're totally normal but that are likely to develop into cancer in the future. It can help women get earlier diagnosis for breast cancer or just know that there may be problematic areas to follow up on and potentially get screening more regularly than they have otherwise. A pretty cool use of machine learning for cancer diagnosis. Okay, cancer treatments. How do we actually treat cancer? How can we do this better than we're currently doing it? Here's an example from another Stanford bioengineering professor's lab. This is Professor Jennifer Cochran. They recently engineered a novel cytokine ligand in order to increase or rather slow down cancer cell growth in mice. So what they did was engineer this cytokine CLF1 in order to have tighter affinity for one of its binding partners. You can be sort of the kind of complex assay that they had up in order to do that is cartooned right here where the cytokine ligand would be bound by different proteins. Usually use fluorescently tied antibodies to detect whether or not the ligand was bound and you can run these flow cytometry plots. Try to see whether mutations that you make this protein increase binding affinity or not. You can read a lot of details about it in this paper if you're curious. I guess the thing I would like to show you is just that the engineered version of this CLCF1 when administered to mice actually helped keep the tumors that mice had from growing and so they were able to have a much lower tumor volume relative to mice that were not treated with this engineered peptide. So here's a really nice of trying to slow down growth that works really well in mice. Will be interesting to see as they move it to people whether or not this new cancer treatment, this protein-based cancer treatment would be effective. Okay, so probably the biggest thing in cancer treatment right now is something called CAR-T therapy. CAR-T stands for chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy. This type of therapy actually weaponizes your own immune system to fight cancer for you. It's quite clever and a little bit complicated. I'm going to do my best to walk you through this. In CAR-T therapy, a patient gets a blood draw and they remove T-cells, a certain type of immune cell from the person's body and then they engineer these T-cells who have chimeric antigen receptors. So T-cells are usually the cells that can sniff out and destroy invading cells within the body and they do so because they have little antigen receptors on their surface and those tell the T-cell when they, those bind to things and when they bind to things they tell the T-cell, hey I found something that shouldn't be here, you should destroy it. And so the CAR-T is an engineered T-cell that has had a new engineered into it. You actually get genes encoding this new receptor into the T-cell now and those new receptors recognize cancer cells. They recognize protein that are prolific or abundant on cancer cells. Now this isn't easy to do because again, cancer cells are sort of the same as your own cell in the body. They just have gotten a little out of hand. They're replicating too much. They're dividing too much. So they have a lot of same surface markers, a lot of the same proteins on their surface as healthy cells. It just, they have a higher abundance, certain types of markers on their surface, certain proteins on their surface than healthy cells do. And so CAR-T therapy takes advantage of this and says, well, maybe these T-cells will kill some healthy cells in the process, but they will mostly cancer cells. So the chimeric anti-receptors, these sort of cancer-recognizing proteins that are put onto the surface of the T-cell,