doctors being super stressed and dying. We saw a second order consequence of hoarding potential black markets around masks and other things. We saw a different second order consequence of challenges to governmental systems at every level, local, regional, national controversies. We saw changes in political leadership due to failures in elections to get reelected. We saw a third order consequence of stresses and trust of the government and other institutions. We potential imagined a fourth order consequence of future social unrest and challenges to democracy and international relations. You get the idea. Let's come back and do this with glowing plants. Okay, so imagine my Bionet project idea to make a glowing plant, cha-ching. And now I wanna know what impacts it's gonna have on the world. So I can think about these impacts and decide if I wanna change any of them. Right, so glowing plants, first order impacts. Hey, you know, my kids are impressed. I bring a glowing plant home. They're like, wow, dad, that's pretty cool. Next C, I'm gonna have a water dependent nightlights. Don't plug it in, gotta water it. I love glowing gardens. All right. Wow, glowing plants, they're cool. Maybe I get more funding from the government or from investors for plant biotech R&D. All right. And if that's true, you know, like maybe I get actually, no, no, even just the glowing plants itself, this is a first order impact. It's a better tool for plant R&D. I can use the glow to tell me whether genes are on or off in certain tissue types. So like glowing as a print statement or an output statement to let me understand plants, like super cool tool for plant R&D research. There's more first order consequences. Let's just get a sense of it. All right. So let's see. New category at flower shows. That's a first order impact. So if people who compete in flower shows start to create new categories around glowing plants, a second order impact is gonna be more colors of glowing. And then the third order impact would be like glowing rainbow gardens. And let's see, more flower show stuff. So who participates in flower shows? I don't have time for that. Maybe there'll be greater GMO acceptance among retirees. Like I might enjoy a flower show if I ever retire. And if that's happening, you know, maybe this all comes together and instead of like fall foliage in Vermont or wherever, where the leaves change color, maybe we have nighttime foliage where there's different glows of plants. It's not in the fall, it's in the spring and the summer. So you go out at night and people's hillsides and forests are all different colors lit up at night. All right. Okay, better tools for plant biotech R&D, more climate resilient crops, better operational understanding of plants. Finally, we get nitrogen fixing crops for crops that aren't naturally legumes or things like that. These are all second order consequences. Well, then third order consequences or impacts would be reduced starvation risk, increased population before, more profits for seed corpse. Is that good or bad? Depends. What if we could have plants that grow things? If we have full understanding of plants, like I'd like to have a pitcher plant that's just a coffee cup. You know, it's like, why do I have to make coffee cups in a factory to just grow coffee cups or grow, you know, thermoses? Could we have, oh no, like nitrogen fixing plants and operational understanding of plants. Maybe we can get plant based weapons. Could I engineer an apple tree or like a grapefruit plant to make a grenade, you know, where the plants are doing biosynthesis of high energy compounds. And then the fruit is a grenade fruit, like, whoa, like suddenly growing plants. And like, I might get military munitions grown off of, okay, well, let's come back off that one. Nitrogen fixing, but like, okay, here's the thing. If you wanted this, what would you do in your design criteria to make this outcome more likely? Plant-based weapons, grenade fruit. Or if you didn't want this, what would be in your won't line in the design criteria? See what I mean? See why this gets really interesting? All right, lower CO2 emissions, all right. Okay, let's go back. Glowing gardens. I cannot wait to plant glowing plants in my lawn, in my garden. Oh, maybe that's going to confuse the insects. They're going to be like up all night or who knows. And maybe there'll be some horizontal gene transfer. Other creatures will get the glowing cassette. And now suddenly, like, not just my garden is glowing, but other things are glowing, like the forest or the birds and insects that are eating the plants or parts of the plants. And if I have confused insects, then maybe I have collapsing ecosystems. It's like, maybe I need to, like, what do I, do I want this or not? What do I do down here? Water-dependent light lights, lower electric bills, but more water spills, more shopping, because I saved money on my utility bill, but more water spills. I have to do more laundry or ruin clothes. And what does that cost? If my kids are impressed, oh, no, they're going to have higher expectations. You know, they're going to look at that movie, Avatar. It's like, well, you know, that's like, that's just a movie. I have glowing plants in real life. So then James Cameron, who made Avatar, is going to have to like double down. He's going to have to go and imagine something even crazier than Pandora and so on. All right. You get the idea. Future's Wheel, pretty cool. And the point here is to imagine first, second, third, fourth order impacts. Keep going until you get tired, basically. But most importantly, don't just stop at that. Think about what you want and what you don't want from these impacts and then redesign your project. All right. Reflective questions. The thing about this BioNet project is we really are not telling you what to do. It's up to you where you are to decide the most important, fun, compelling thing that you'd like to imagine bioengineers can do. And so the first reflective question is, is it hard? Give it a blank slate. How do you feel about it? Have you been asked to do this sort of thing before? Leaders are asked this all the time. So we cannot wait to see what you come up with and to see that you're practicing these tools because having these five tools and using them once, you just keep going for the rest of your life. But stop for a moment and think about how you feel about it. Was it challenging? Was it easy? You know, why? What tools of the five helped you get going the most? Which tools do you feel like you understand? Which tools would you like to practice some more? Remember in the assignment itself, there are links to more information, YouTube videos, websites. I'm still learning about all these tools, right? Like I know how to brainstorm. I can get better at brainstorming. I'm definitely about the world's best brainstormer. How often, when you're coming up with a project idea, should you stop to consider the impacts, real or potential, of what you are or might be doing? Should you think about this at all? Or should you check at every step or something in between? That's it. Can't wait to see what your projects are.