We're going to talk about the bio-economy. So zooming out and not thinking about the details of molecules, but how this manifests in economic practice and relationships. Let's jump in. Economy, what's that? Well, you could say it's the wealth or resources of a region, or more particularly, the making of things, the consumption of things, the goods and services. And so when we put bio in front of economy, it's how does bio-making and bio-consumption relate to the goods and services we enjoy or depend upon? In the modern sense, the thinking here is not that old. Here's a paper that was published in 2007 by Rob Carlson. Rob used to be my old housemate, believe it or not. He writes, laying the foundations for a bio-economy. And in the abstract, we see he says, biotech is becoming an important part of the economy. Now, biotech, of course, gets invented around 1980. And so when he writes in 2007, this is 27 years in, maybe 30 years in. And within a generation after the invention of genetic engineering, biotech is contributing 1% to the gross domestic product, this proxy for all economic activity in the United States. So 1% of everything, right? 1% including finance revenue and manufacturing revenue of cars. And biotech's already 1%, this back in 2007. And what's interesting is he's like, it's growing. It's growing fast, 20% growth. That's incredible growth, right? It's like doubling in just a few years. If you grow 20% every year, suddenly you've got twice as much. All right, what else does Rob say? Oh, I love this. This is fun language. He writes, welcome to the paleobiotic age. Just as today, we look back somewhat wistfully on our quaint paleolithic, literally old stone ancestors, our descendants, the people who come after us, they're gonna see us as the paleobiotic people, that we hardly understood biology and biotechnology at all. It's only 1% of the economy. Maybe it's gonna become 90% of the economy. We're paleobiotic people. I love that word. And what is the bioeconomy? How big is it? And he estimates it's somewhere between 350 to a trillion dollars a year and so on. All right. And if you go back in time to 2007, one of the reasons Rob's framing and paper were so important is it helped displace recent earlier experiences. So this image here shows an effort to decontaminate, it looks like the Congress in Washington, DC, in response to a marathrax, the sending of anthrax spores as a pathogen to members of Congress and others. And there are about 24 casualties due to these very famous attacks that immediately followed the planes being hijacked. What do I mean? More specifically, the way people thought about biotechnology following the anthrax attacks, culturally, the narrative was dominated by fear and bioterror. And so when Rob shows up with others, as we'll see, and starts talking about the bioeconomy, people are like, oh, thank goodness. We might want economic growth. We might want jobs and money, right? And so might bioeconomy be culturally more powerful than bioterror? It turns out it was. And so another incredibly important piece of work was led by Mary Maxson working in the Obama White House. She's a biologist, a geneticist who'd studied yeast previously, but then enters public service and working in the Obama White House drafts, leads the drafting of what was then called the National Bioeconomy Blueprint. And, you know, goes on to write things like, a bioeconomy is one based on the use of research and innovation and the biological sciences to create economic activity and public benefit. The bioeconomy is all around us, new drugs, new diagnostics for improved health, higher yielding food crops, better biofuels that reduce dependency on petroleum and so on, just to name a few, they write. And the public benefit gained here is enormous. It's feeling pretty good. This is 11 years ago. But there's a problem. And it was a political cultural problem. Although the White House is drafting a bioeconomy blueprint, we weren't able to put into practice executive orders or legislation to dramatically advance the blueprint. Instead, what we encountered was concerns about biotechnology, concerns about GMOs, valid concerns. And so in other words, instead of boosting the bioeconomy back in 2012, we got a little bit of a pushback and people concerned about the environment and organic food and so on appropriately raised questions about what future we might be building with our bioeconomy. And so we didn't see actions taken at the highest levels of government just over a decade ago. Rob appears not too much later, 2016, and he's estimating this time, how big is the bioeconomy really and how much is it growing? And it's like, okay, we've got industrial stuff. These are polymers and monomers, things that make carpets by brewing ingredients. We've got biologics, which is a placeholder for medicines and then crops. And you can see these sectors in 1980, there's $0 billion a year of revenue and genetic engineering is just getting going and then up, up, up, up, up and away. And it's doubling with interesting pacing every five years or so. Okay. And so, again, why are we talking about bioeconomy? If you're becoming a bionaut and are gonna be doing things in the world, whether you're making goods or services, you're gonna be entering into the bioeconomy directly or indirectly. So we might wanna understand it. That's just to remind us what the motivation is here. Here's another cut at what Rob's representing. It's interesting. The biggest economic sector for biotechnology back in 2017 is food, agriculture. And the second biggest is industrial intermediates and medicines and health, which is what people think about first most of the time. It's actually a big sector, but it's the third biggest, right? So that's interesting to see. Okay. And this is just for the United States, right? So globally, it's gonna be bigger still. So let's see what's happening again. Let's try again at the White House. So here we are in 2019 with the White House then, Dr. Megan Palmer, Dr. Mark Sallet, and myself. And we're there for the 2019 Summit on America's Bioeconomy. And you can see a description here. The link down below. You can read the whole report. Bioeconomy represents the infrastructure, innovation, products, technology, and data derived from biologically related processes and science that drive economic growth, improve public health, agriculture, and security. Bioeconomy outputs are incredibly diverse and feature applications limitless in terms of application and value. New ways to treat cancer, novel manufacturing methods for medicines, plastics, materials, consumer products, pests and diseases, and so on and so forth. DNA-based information storage. Well, all the things we've been talking about in class. Looks like they got it right. Now it's 2% of the GDP, almost $400 billion a year. We weren't able just in 2019 to get an executive order signed by the president. We didn't see it at the highest levels of government. Just like in 2012, we were close. We were close again, but no deal. But what if we really could grow almost anything? And so while we didn't yet see the government going all in on biotechnology and bioengineering and the bioeconomy, we saw the private sector start to pick up on this even more. And so here's a report from McKinsey, the consulting shop, and they dropped this in 2020 or thereabouts, the biorevolution. There's gonna be four areas for innovation, molecular, systems, biomachines, and biocomputing. And the scope of the impact of innovation in these fundamental research layers is ridiculous. 60% of the physical stuff we need and consume in our society could be grown as opposed to refined and derived from fossil inputs or other manufacturing methods. We foresee addressing almost half of the world's diseases through a biorevolution. And this is talking about the next 10, 20 years. And there's a lot of R&D opportunity. What are they talking about in a little bit more detail? Biomaterial production, personalized precision services and medicines, engineered organisms, higher productivity, biomachine interfaces and computing. It's gonna impact agriculture, health, energy, consumers, instead of being a couple of hundred billion dollars a year domestically, it's gonna be two to $4 trillion a year. It's a double digit percentage of the economy. It's growing, right? We're not just growing in terms of what we do with biology, like the economic impact of bioengineering is growing. And not only are there like transformational capacities across many different application areas, there's a lot of problems. There are a lot of risks, things to manage. It could be misused. It's hard to get agreement. There's privacy concerns. It might not be fairly distributed. Not everybody can benefit from the bioeconomy. You might not be able to control it in terms of crossing borders and policing, right? So you can look at that the right side and probably add other concerns. I just want you to know that all these risks are opportunities for somebody to figure out how to mitigate the risk or solve the problem, right? So there's tremendous growth in opportunity and support for the bioeconomy. Of course, now we're also experiencing a pandemic, right? And so the SARS-CoV-2 experience is informing everybody's thinking. The private sector continues to grow. Here's some students who took over the New York Stock Exchange for a day and it looks like they put a T-Rex on the front. And below that, as they're listing their company on the Stock Exchange, they say, grow everything, right? So they're gonna give that a try. Finally, in September of 2022, we see an executive order signed by the president of the United States of America. And let's just read it a little bit. Executive order on advancing biotechnology and biomanufacturing innovation for a sustainable, safe, and secure American bioeconomy. And one of the lead public servants who helped get this across the finish line is Dr. Michelle Rosso. Here, Megan Palmer, past colleague, was part of the event as well. And so the executive order mechanism is interesting because it's literally the president ordering the executive branch of the government to do stuff, right? And so they're fun to read. It's like, by the authority vested in me as president, I order the following, right? Section one, policy. It's the policy of my administration to coordinate a whole-of-government approach to advance biotech, biomanufacturing towards innovative solutions and all the things we've been talking about in this class. Health, climate, energy, food security, agriculture, supply chains, national and economic security, central to this policy and its outcomes are the principles of fairness, doing the right thing, safety, and security. All right. And again, the link, if you wanna read the whole thing and see what's going on, is at the bottom of the slide. Finally, right? Like, finally, we see at the highest level of government, like, bioeconomy's gonna matter, which is proxy for jobs and money derived from bioengineering biotechnology. It only took us four administrations, but here we are, right? And so, you know, what does this look like? You can track down on YouTube the recording of the event. I dropped some links in here. Like, check it out. I double-dog dare you to go to the second link at the timestamp, 15 minutes, and listen to what the director of the National Science Foundation has to say about bioengineering, right? But this is the room and you've got the science advisor to the president, the chair of the National Economic Council, the advisory advisor, Chairman Warner from the Senate Intelligence Committee. Anyway, like, all of government approach, like, we're gonna figure this out, right? Okay. And so, the rest of the world starts to react. Here's John Cumbers writing for Forbes, White House unveils strategy to grow trillion-dollar U.S. bioeconomy. The bioeconomy is booming and it's gonna get a lot bigger, and let's go, right? Like, he used Dali and artificial intelligence to make a pseudo-watercolor painting of what the bioeconomy looks like. Let you decide what you think of that artwork. Also in this article, it's pretty interesting. Dragon Lady has a comment that she drops at the bottom. A nice article. The one thing that's gonna be a problem with this plan is that our education system isn't educating the future generations to think, to innovate, to create, to push the envelope and to develop new technologies that are safe and sustainable. Ha-ha, but here you are, right? So, Dragon Lady doesn't know about you and what we're doing through this class together. I love this comment. We're on it, right? So, remember, when you become a bionaut, maybe you can pay it forward and teach still more people about what biotechnology is about and why they might wanna be part of it or at least express how they feel about it. Okay, fine. It's great at a high level, but it's like White House, this and that. At this point, you should be saying, what about me, right? Like, what do 21st century bioengineers do? And it's like, are there really jobs? And like, what are they? And is there a job for me? Right, so these are all the more important questions, right? Cause we're all just individuals and we've gotta figure this out for ourselves. Our course has this theme of enabling you to become a bionaut, navigating and leading into the biotechnology frontier and beyond, right? Like an astronaut going into space, but much more interesting, we're going into the future of biotechnology together, right, so bionauts assemble. What we wanted to do is talk to people in the real world about what it's like to be a bionaut. And what we want to do is talk to people in the real world and ask them what type of bioengineers they are. And so just for this class, with the team here, we have arranged for nine people to be interviewed, the folks shown here. And we've asked each of them about things like, well, what type of bioengineer are you? And how did you find your way into the biotic future as a bionaut? Let me tell you just a little bit about some of these people. But as of today, the recordings of the interviews are all online on YouTube. And as part of the PSET, we'll ask you to at least dig into three of them to see what you can learn. So let me just give you some postcards to help you get oriented and motivate why you want to track down these interviews. First, Sophia. She is the co-founder and chief of culture for a company called MycoWorks. She used to be a dancer, an artist, a performer, but now she's a leader of this company called MycoWorks, Myco for mushrooms. And so you can see a picture here with her CEO and the New York Times is asking the question, are mushrooms the future of leather? And what MycoWorks does is they use mushrooms that grow on wood chips to make a mushroom skin that you can peel off and put through a tanning process and make a replacement for animal leather. So what if you could grow a replacement for leather in a couple of weeks with no cows involved, right? And you can see this picture down in the bottom left, there's Sophia in the middle in red and they're down in Union County, South Carolina creating a new factory, a million square foot factory that's gonna provide 400 jobs in that community to scale up the manufacturing of mycological leather, right? So maybe you want to check out the interview she was a performer, a dancer, now she's the chief of culture for MycoWorks. Another person, Ben Novick, lead scientist and program manager at Revive and Restore. Revive and Restore is a charity whose mission is to bring bioengineering technologies to every other species besides Homo sapiens. There's so many people working on human health, what about the health of other creatures on the planet? And so one of the projects Ben leads, believe it or not, is to work on de-extincting or reviving the passenger pigeon one of the most abundant birds in the history of North America. It went extinct about a century ago from over hunting and loss of habitat. Could we bring that back to life and responsibly release it into the wild? That's what Ben does. So maybe you want to listen to Ben's interview. How about Ahmed, Ahmed Best? Amazing friend and teacher for me. He's an actor, he's a storyteller, he's an Afro-futurist. What do I mean? Well, he played a character in Star Wars. Or if you watch The Mandalorian, he came back as a master Jedi. And I don't want to like, spoiler alert, well, he like saved baby Grogu. Or with his colleague, Dr. Lonnie Brooks from Cal State East Bay, runs a program called Afro Rhythms, Afro Rhythms from the Future about democratizing the future through storytelling with respect to diversity of cultures. What type of bioengineer is Ahmed, right? Maybe you should check that one out. How about Carrie McInter? Special agent for the FBI, the Federal Bureau of Investigations, an emergency trauma nurse. What type of bioengineer is Carrie? Well, she thinks about economic espionage, nation states spying on each other, companies spying on each other, bioengineering innovations in the United States. Are they safe and secure to benefit Americans and others? Or what if bioengineering technologies could be misused to create more bioterror? How are we going to deal with counter-proliferation and biosecurity? And other matters involving people and keeping people-